













Fundamental Beliefs of the
Iglesia ni Cristo
(Church of Christ)

Series 1989




ERANo G. MANALO









Iglesia ni Cristo
Quezon City, Philippines
199 ,8







Introduction
This book contains the lessons that should be used as guide for the preachers of the Church of Christ (Iglesia ni Cristo) in teaching the fundamental trines upheld by this Church. All of these basic doctrines are written in the Bible or Holy Scriptures. which is the sole basis of our faith and service to God. The truths written in the Bible, which should be heard, understood, and believed by all men in order for them to attain eternal salvation, are introduced in the
lessons contained herein.
The teachings of God should be taught by the preachers of the Iglesia ni Cristo with complete clarity and fidelity - moved by pure intentions and filled with power - to people who have expressed their desire to be counted as members of the true Church which our Lord Jesus Christ will save.


Eraiio G. Manalo Quezon City, Philippines
1990








Second Edltlon 1998






Contents

Introduction .............................,...... i

sson No. Page
1 The Bible ........................................ 1
2 The True God .................................. 4
3 The True Religion ............................ 8
4 The Church of Christ 12
5 The History of the Church Built
by Christ in the Fitst Century 16
6 Proofs that the Apostasy of the
First Church Took Place. 24
7 The Origin of Other Churches 33
8 Not by Faith Only. 39
9 One Organized Church 43
10 The Church of Christ
in the Philippines ............................- 48
11 Brother Felix Y. Manalo: God's
Messenger in these Last Days 54
12 The Promise for Those Who
Endure Persecution 59
13 Membership in the
Church of Christ 63
14 The Lord Jesus Christ
(Part I) 68


15


lb


17

18

l '

'(U

21

22


Tht. Lord Jesus Christ
(J 't.11I Ill ...........................................

Lord Jesus Christ
[l';1_tl 111) ..........................................

Leading a New Life ..........................

Worship SeIVice ..............................

rr Voluntary Contributions .......... 'The Brotherhood .............................
Other Prohibitions ..........................

....................................



72

75

81

84

91

97

103

107








Theme:



L S S O N N 0. 1


The Bible
The Words Of God Are Wrttten In The Bible.

23 Missiomuy Work and Praying 114
24 The Church Administration 119
25 Unity 126
26 Judgment Day 132

27 The Probation .................................
28 Overall Instructions ........................

135
140


Introduction
All the major religions of the world have their own sacred scripture upon which they base their faith. Islam, the religion of the Muslims, uses the Korarr, the Brahmans have their Vedas; the Zoroastrians, Zend-Avesta; the Confucianists, the King; and the Buddhists, the 'lnpitaka. Butover and above all these is the Bible. The Bible teaches not only morals but also, and most important, the will of God, because it is the word of God. The words of God are written in the Bible. Before proving this, we ought first to understand-
Presentation





2 Fundamental Beliefs of the Iglesia ni Cristo





Proof

Note: The word of God differs from the word of man: the latter is often proven false and goes unfulfilled, while the former has complete fulfillment and therefore it is the truth.

..:301'nt: later Lime and, in fact, have been fulfilled?
!\, In) The lwo world wars ...................... Mt. 24:6-7
l f;:1rt1lne and poverty ... .. .. .. Ml:.

The Bible 3
(b) Knowledge shall Dan. 12:4

(c) Perilous II Tim. 3:1-5
Conclusion: Therefore, we are assured that the Bible we are using now is the true Holy Scriptures because this has the quality of the words of God: What He says will surely happen.


Promise
the Bible?
/\. May have life everlasting ................... Jn. 20:30-31

Instruction
Thus, what is the strict instruction of the Apostles so that we may not fall prey to erroneous faiths?
/\, Oo not go beyond what is I Cor. 4:6
lti.l'ltruction: Reject the teachings contained in the Catholic Catechism. Book of Mormon, and in other such books used by other religions because they are prohibited by God.

t,J, What is God's warning to those who add to or subtract from the words of God written in the Bible?
/\, 'rtH.:y will be punished and will not
l,c Rev. 22:18-19

Conclusion
We should faithfully obey all the teachings of the Bible taught
In the Church of Christ because these are God's words.





The True God
Theme: The true God who should be known and worshipped according to the Bible is the
, Father who created all things.

Objectlvet1
1. Convince the candidate for baptism to have faith in
God, the Creator of all things.
2. Correct his commonly-held but false belief concerning
t:h.e true God.

Summary
The Iglesia ni Cristo believes in the teaching taught by the Bible that the Father Who created all things is the only true God. There are no three persons in one God; thus we should reject the belief in the so-called Trinity. The Bible also prohibits worship of images or idolatry.
Man should not be content with knowing God. He should also enhance his relationship with God and walk in His ways.

Introduction
Almost all religions have as their objective to serve and worship God. But who is that Godwhom man should serve and worship? Who among the "gods" being worshipped today is the true God? We must first know who is the true Godwe ought to worship and serve. This, our Lord Jesus Christ teaches.

Presentation


l;ud

I, And who is the only true Godintroduced by the Apostles?
The Father from whom are all things Cor. 8:6
Cqnclusion: Therefore, whoever teaches that there are other gocl.s asi.de from the Father contradicts Christ and His l).posUes. Thus, the belief in the Trinity- or the belief that in one Godthere are three persons - should be renounced.

Which teaching of the Bible is violated by the doctrine that I.here are three persons in one God?
/\. He is one God-there is no
other God besides Is. 45:21

,f. What is the nature of the true Godwhoshould be worshipped according to Christ?
/\.. Spirit ......................................... ........... Jn. 4:24

Conclusion: Therefore, the true God cannot be represented by a picture or graven image because He is a spirit, without flesh and bones.

Conclusion: Thus, man should not worship graven images. This is prohibited by God.



Proofs

/\ The only true Jn. 17:3

, . Whom does Christ refer to as the only true God?
I\, The Father Jn. 17:1
4








q, Wl.1,.v 1 !_;,,., .in 111e pow0r of f'-liswo1fof1
I l,'1"!111,.,n 11,.i 1,.--. Al111i1.!lJt,y ..................... Ge.n .17:1
' ;ud ts inv1sible i.n nature. but His almighty



lw'litw Gud
p. How can we know God according to the Bible?
i\, By keeping Hts commandments Jn. 2:3

p11wn 0:111 1,u

1.fly s1;:1::(1 in J".lis mighty work. s

,;i. What else is the obligation of all who know God?



for the baptismal candidate:
i, Are the pictures or images before which many people
kneel and which they serve the trne God?
· . What fs the nature of the trne God?
,':J. Can you cite one of the things created by God?

Whatare some of the things created by God which manifest Fiis power and Wisdom?
/\. The heavens and the firmament Ps. 19:1-4
Example: What can we see in the heavens created by God? The sun, the moon, the billions of stars, and the planets that move across the heavens not in a disorderly, hit-or-miss
manner but harmoniously in their respective orbits With
amazing precision. This is undoubtedly a manifestation of the infinite power of God.


6,. Worship Him Ps. 95:6-7
Conclusion: Therefore, to worship God is man's greatest obligation. We should not neglect this. Thus, you should start attending t:1:?-e worship services of the Iglesia ni Cristo. Whenever you attend worship service, tum your attendance card. If you attend the worship service in another locale, ask for a certificate of attendance from the secretary designated to give these certificates.




second coming ..................................

Conclusion

II Thess. 1:8-9

generated as a result of natural processes?

The Church of Christ believes in the teaching ofthe Bible that U1e Father Who created all things is the only true God. The belief in t.he so-called Trinity, the doctrine that teaches that there are three persons in one God has no biblical basis, hence, it should be renounced. The Bible also prohibits worship of images or idolatry. But knowledge of God should not stop here. Man should develop his relationship with God and walk in His ways.






Obligation
A To serve and know Him Ps. 100:2-3


LESSON NO. 3'==1
The True Religion
Theme: Not all churches or religions are of God.

ffw True Reltoton 9
: Even if man uses the name of Christ in his service and even if he can perform "miracles", if it is not the will of God that he fulfills, he would not be made worthy of heaven.

/\,, Worship based on commandments
of men will be in Mt. 15:9

J. Suppose such services are done with great sacrifice and bodily suffering (like works of penance), will this then make the worship based on the commandments of men.worthy before God?




Introduction
To serve God is man's sacred duty. It is evil torefuse cognize God, because this is ingratitude to our Creator. But not all fonns of service or worship rendered by man to God are acceptable to Him. Likewise, not all Christian-professing
churches established on earth belong to God. This, theBible will prove to us.

Presentation


8

Proof
Note: These men belonged to the nation of God. But when they rendered a worship different from what God had commanded them, they were rejected; they were even punished.






o .F'undmMntal qf tM lgi.ata nt Crl.stx,
to be done In accordance with His will. Therefore, man ahouJd be 1ure that his knowledge, love, and faith in God is correct and true.

Procedure






7'w '1'lw 11

Note: Ml;lll cannot perform worthy service to God unless he is in the Church of Christ.





Obligation


Conclusion
Therefore, we should renounce the common belief that all churches are of God. There is only one true Church and that is the Church of Christ. It is in this Church that man should perform his services to God so that these services will be made acceptable. Thus, weshould value the Church because it is here wherein man can serve God properly and attain salvation.

Instructions
1. Return to God, leave your false religion, and join the Church of Christ.
2. Continue listening to the teachings of God.
3. Do not be neglectful of your obligations to Him.





The Church of Christ
Theme: Christ commands that whoever desires to be
· saved should join the Church of Christ (Iglesia ni Cristo).

The Church of Christ 18

accepted Christ as their personal Savior. But what they have failed to understand is the manner by which Chiist will save man. They also have not known who the beneficiaiies of such grace are. In this lesson we will clarify these things.

Presentation



Note: Therefore, the Savior Himself commands man to enter or join the Church of Christ. Such command should be obeyed by those who want to be saved.

Reason







Introduction
Many people wonder why it is necessary for man to become a member of the Church of Christ to be saved when they believe lhat they are already serving God in various ways. Others say lhat they no longer need the Church because they have already
12


Conclusion: Therefore, because all people have sinned, all
people need salvation to avoid punishment in the lake of fire.





,., Fundamental qf nt Cristo

(./. is it necessary for anyone to be a member of the Church
f Christ to be saved? Is it not enough that he just believes
• in Christ?

Proof
Q, Because of this, is there salvation for those whorefuse to join the Church of Christ?

Th" Church qf Christ 15

O. Will Christ answer for the sins of those who refuse to follow Him by declining His invitation to become members of His
body?



Conclusion
The Church of Christ will be saved by Christ because He made the Church His body and He Himself is the head- in the sight of God, the Church and Christ stand as onenewman. This is the reason why Christ was able to assume responsibility for the sins of His Church without violating the law of God which states that the sinner himself should die for his own sins.
Therefore, the belief that salvation is attainable by simply believing in Christ, without membership in the Church of Chrisl, is false and, even worse, unscriptural. The Church is necessary not because it is itself the savior but because it is the one which
Christ will save.

Instruction
Therefore, those who are not yet listed as members of the Church should now take steps to be counted among those to be
saved.









Thern



I. f,; 5 0 N N 0. ;:;



The History of the Church Built
by Christ in the First Century
Why most of us have been brought up in the Catholic Church and not in the Church of Christ.

Cl1'11rcltJJ11/U ,I Irr 1,/r_t; l'Yr. C1 11f.ur1 J7

Presentation
is the hj_st.ory or the Church built by Christ in the first
century?
[\. It. started as a little f1ock during
Christ's time on earth ..... .................... Lk. 12:32











Introduction
The Church of Christ believes that the Church established by Christ in Jerusalem in the first century ceased to exist. It had apo tatized. Thus, the Church of Christ in these last days is tl_ie n':storation of the Church founded by Christ. This lesson will give usa brief account of the events that happened to the Church
built by Christ in the first century.

16








- , , •. ; 1'undclmantal •- qf the /gleala nt Crfato
The ApoetuJ WU prophNled
g, What did Chrlat prophesy concerning the Church w ch He
built In the nrat century?

(Bible, The OXford Annotated Bible. The Holy Bible. Revised Standard Version. ed. by HerbertG. May and Bruce M. Metzger. New York: Oxford University Press 0 1962,)





TM Ht.story qf th.e'Church. Butlt by C t in the First Century 19
word and example, that the Church felt it her duty to lay it down asa law.
"The discipline of the Church has been exerted from the beginning
in prohibiting Priests to marry after their ordination."
[James Cardinal Gibbons, The Faith of OurFathers. New York: P. J. Kenedy& Sons.(c) 1917. (Book))

p. 317
"What does the second commandment of the Church order us to do?
"It orders us to fast and to abstain from flesh meat on c rtain days of the year."
[A Seminary Professor, Manual of Christian Doctrine: Comprising Dogma, Moral, and Worship. New York: Lasalle Bureau,(c) 1949. (Book)]




'ID a..._ qfflw,.._fa nt CrfatD

Tfv; l,IISl<)flj (f .l.J1,1llt vu l.11, a,cl' r:;i Ccnl,1)11} 21

nu tu wny ttccctve you. for ,It will nol come unless the fhst, nn<l lhe man of lawlessness ls revealed, the son lcrdnwito11., wlto opposes o.nd exalts himself above every so-called
1. o!I cw object ofworshl,p, so that he takes his seattn thetemple of God,
fl pllli)lhtJ,(ltllnsclf Ml being God."
(BU,a., New American Standard Bible. New York and Cleveland: Colliers
C 1980, 1982, 1963, 1968, 1971, 1972, 1973.J
g, Which commandment of God have Catholic priests opposed
with the Intention of making themselves like God?

Q, What is the kind of Fatherhood of God which the Catholic priests want to imitate?

Proof



'"l11cordlnary"method of making the sign of the cross is that which every Catholic learns in early childhood - the putting of the right hand
to the forehead, ... "
(Rt.Rev. Msgr.JohnF. Sullivan, D. D., TheExtemalsoftheCatholicChurch. Nihil Obstat: JohnM.A. Feams, Imprimatur: Francis Cardinal Spellman. New York,
U.S. A.: P.J. Kenedy & Sons,(c) 1951. (Book))


MWhat is the significance of the sign of the cross?
"The sign of the cross is an inseparable symbol of the Catholic faith."
[Philip O'Reilly, 1000 QuestiDns and Answers on Catholicism. Nih.il Obstat: Rev. Msgr. John A. McMahon, Imprimatur: Samuel Cardinal Strttch. U.S.A.: Western
Printing and Uthographl.ng Co.(c) 1963. (Book)I

Conclusion: Thus, stop making the sign of the cross.


from the faith?

" ...the Church created a special trtbunal, the Papal or Universal Inquisition. Theessential features of its method were fixed bya set of laws passedjointly by Pope Lucius Ill and Emperor Barbarossa in 1184. The minor details had been added by 1230. Such spiritual courts of justice were established in localities most infected by

22 Fundanwntal q/ tlw nt Crlato
The 1tate, too, considered heresy as a crime, It undermined the foundations of public welfare. The penalty nxed by the laws for heresy was death by fire. This was never
lnntr.ted by the ecclestaaUcal judge."
(Rev. S. netten, S.J. and Rev. Alfred Kaufmann, S.J.,TheModern World.

The History qf th.e Church Built by Chrlat In th.e First Century 23

Allyn & l.lftcon, 10 1942. (Book))

Q, Do the Catholic priests admit that the Catholic Church put


Acts 20:37-38

t.o death people as attested by history?

p.47
"CHURCH'S RESPONSIBILI'IY'
"The Church cannot escape responsibility forthe use of torture nor for the burning of victims at the stake. TheChurch in the person of her pontiffs was responsible for the use of torture; this cruel practice was intraduced by lnnocen t rv in 1252... The pontiff tries to defend the use
of torture by classifying heretics with th.ieves and murderers, a mere comparison is his only argument. This law of Innocent-IV was renewed and confirmed by Alexander IV on November 30, 1259, and by Clement IV on November 3, 1265.
"Neither can the Church escape responsibility for sending heretics to be burnt to death at the stake. The mere subterfuge of having the victim turned over to the secular arm pain of excommunication and interdict npon rulers enforcing the death penalty against heretics."
[John A. O'Brien, The TruthAbout theInquisition. NihU Obstat: Thomas E. Dillon,
Imprimatur: John F. Noll, New York: Paulist Press, (c) 1950. (Book))


Conclusion: This is the reason why many of us were born in the Catholic Church and not in the Church of Christ which Christ built in the first century. False prophets led away from the faith the Christians who did not remain firm, and those who remained firm in the true teachings of Christ were put
to death.

The call
them to be saved?

Instruction
Renounce all Catholic teachings and practices because these are against the teachings of God.



P1'(>vJ.::11,u.1, 111<.l:\(IOstn.::u o/ ti,,. fll.WJC

,,,:
.<.,)



l, 1,; S SON N



Proofs that the Apostasy of First Church Took Place
Theme: The teachings of God from which the Catholic Church has turned away.



"It is in this sense, I take it, that scholastic writers have spoken of the same worship being paid to images of Christ as to Christ our Lord Himself: for the act which is called the worship of an image is really the worship of Christ Himself, through and in the presence of the image
and by occasion of it: "
[James Cardinal Gibbons, The Faith of Our Fathers. New York: P.J. Kenedy&
Sons,(c) 1917. (Book)]






FaithoJOur Fathers, p.164 (207)







Introduction
Catholic defenders insist that they have not turned away from Christ and God. In fact, they say, "We continue to worship God and Christ." But how did the Catholic Church tum away from God and from Christ? What they have turned away from are the teachings of God and of Christ and this wewill prove in this lesson.

Images

24


"The doctrine of the Catholic Church regarding the use of sacred images is clearly and fully expressed by the General Council of Trent in the following words: Toe images of Christ. and of His Virgin Mother. and of other-Saints. are to be had and retained, especially in churches:
... the honor which is given them is referred to the originals which they represent, so that by the images which we kiss. and before which we uncover our heads or kneel, we adore Christ and venerate His Saints. whose likeness they represent.' ... The Pagans looked upon an idol as a god endowed with intelligence and the other attributes of the Deity."
[James Cardinal Gibbons, The Faith of Our Fathers. New York: P.J.Kmiedy & Sons,(c) 1917. (Book)]
Note: Hence, what the Catholics say differs from what they do. Even if they deny that they worship images, the fact that they kneel before them proves that they indeed worship
images.

H P\Dldamnal .S."- ff tlw ll!Mfa nt Crfato
g. Doea the Roman Catholic Church admit that many of her member, have Indeed been corrupted by these evil things?

WC)nhip
evil?


"This oblation of the New Law is commonly called Mass. The word Mass is derived by some from the Hebrew term Missach (Deut.xvi),

Proqfs that the Apostasy qf the Ftrst Church Took Place 27
which means a free offering. Others derive it from the word Missa, which the Priest uses when he announces to the congregation that Divine Service is over...
"The sacrifice of the Mass is the consecration of the bread and wine
Into the body and blood of Christ, and the oblation of this body and blood to God, by the ministry of the Priest, for a perpetual memorial of Christ's sacrifice on the cross. The Sacrifice of the Mass Is identical with that of the cross, both having the same victim and High
Jesus Christ."
[James Cardinal Gibbons, The Faith of Our Fathers. New York: P.J. Kenedy& Sons, (c) 1917. (Book)]



"What is the Holy Eucharist? - The Holy Eucharist is a sacrament, the supreme gift of Our Saviour Jesus Christ, which really and truly contains His body and blood. soul and divinity, under the appearances of bread and
"When did Christ institute the Holy Eucharist? - Christ instituted
the Holy Eucharist at the Last Supper, the night before He died... "How did Christ institute the Holy Eucharist? - Christ inst.i1ut.ed
the Holy Eucharist in this way: He took bread, blessed and broke it, and giving it to His Apostles, said: Take ye and eat; this is My body,: then He took a cup of wine, blessed it, and giving it to them. said: 'Drink ye all of this; for this is My blood of the new testament which shall be shed for many unto remission of sins'; finally, He gave His Apostles I.he commission: 'do this for a commemoration of me."'
(MostRev. Louis LaRavoire Morrow, D.D., My Catholic Faith. (A Catechism in Pictures). Nihil Obstat: Henricus A. Coffey, S.J., Censor deputatll.S, Imprimatur: Michael J. O'Doherty, Archiepiscopus Manilensis. Copyright, 1936. 1937, 1951: by Louis L.R. Morrow: Manila, Philippines and The Catholic Truth Society,
Manila, Philippines. [Book)]

2/J .11\tndamental Bel qf tM /gleata nt Cristo
Q, Are the Catholtc prteets right tn their allegation that the Mass la the Holy Supper Instituted by Christ?
A, They are wrong, The Mass and the Holy Supper
are two different things Mt. 26:26-28
Q, What is the difference between the Mass and the Holy
Supper?

'There were vartous reasons for the gradual growth of the custom of giving Holy Communion under the form of bread alone: the danger ofspilling when it was given under the form of wine; the unsanitary and repugnant practice of all communicants drinking from a common chalice; the time-consuming process of distributing under both forms, which became quite impractical as the number of communicants increased and crowds filled the great cathedrals; and finally, the difficulty of reserving the Blessed Sacrament for Communion under the form of wine."
[Msgr. J.D. Conway,WhatTheyAskAbou.tTheClrurch.NlhUObstat:Rt. Rev. Msgr.

Conclusion: Thus, do not hear mass anymore or receive the so-called Holy Communion.

On Popes and Priests

Proqfs that the Apostasy qf the Ftrst Church Took Place 29



11\mdamenmJ nt Crf.sto
: Some u1ert that what Is doubted Is the date: this, they
allege, ts the reuon for having a question mark.

What Is the evidence that not only Apostle Peter but many others whom they believe to have become popes are not definitely established as popes and are even unknown?
J\. The number is not definitely established
and others are Cath. Diet.
p. 389 (94)
"'iii. The number of popes since St. Peter is not certain; there are 262 commonly enumerated .... Some of these are uncertain, and a dozen are definitely unknown...
(DonaldAttwater. editor, A Catholic Dictionary. Nihil Obstat: Georgi us D. Smith, S.T.D., Ph. D., Censor deputat11S. Imprimatur: E. Morrogh Bernard, Vic, Gen. Second Edition, Revised. New York: The MacMillan Company, (c) 1952, 1931, 1949]

Confession


Proqfa that tM Apoataa11 q/ U,.,l'frat Church Took Place 31
"May the almighty and merciful Lord grant me pardon, absolution and remission of sins. Amen."
[Catholic Catechism, Book Two. Huntington, Indiana: Our Sunday Visitor, Inc., C 19711

Conclusion: Therefore, never confess our sins against God to a priest.

The Saints
The Catholic Church affirms that the saints can act as mediators between God and man because they are already in heaven.




Purgatory


32 Ft.mdCUMntal Bel'4(1 q/t,W lolltsta nt Cristo
"His breath goeth forth, he retumeth to hta earth: fn that very day
his thought fl pert11h."
lloly lJlblc, contaJntng the Old and New Testamer1ts, translated out
with theformer translaUons diligently compared and 1cvie1cc1. set rorm fn 1611 and commonly known as the KingJames Version, New
ty, 1970.)

Instruction: Thus, do not offer prayers for the dead anymore and do not participate in the activities on the so-called All Souls' Day.

Conclusion
We have understood in this lesson that the apostasy of the Church established by Christ in the first century took place when they abandoned the teachings of God preached by Christ and HisApostles. We have proven that it is the Catholic Church which has abandoned these teachings. Their apostasy continues whenever they disobey a commandment of God. In view of this, we should renounce or reject the beliefs and the practices of the Catholic Church including all their superstitions which might have become a part of our daily lives.



[\ LE S S O N N 0. 7



The Origin of other Churches
Theme: The origin of the multitude of churches that are not of Christ.



Introduction
Some people have the wrong notion that all of the established churches today belong to Christ. Others wonder why there is such a proliferation of churches that are in conflict with one another when, in fact, there is only one church established by Christ. People also wonder how this could happen since almost all these churches that claim to be Christian use one and lhe same Bible. The origin of these various churches was taught by Christ in one of His parables.

Presentation

.,,,

lc

'I'M Orf{/tn qf other 35

LJ, 'l't1 w'l1c,m i,i fl1u lv<.:11. ;)ccorrllo lo
Tv 1}1,, rlur:li: ur Churcl1 orCJ,risL Uc. 12::32
20:28 Lamsa
"Take heed therefore to yourselves and to all the flock over which the Holy Spirit has appointed you overseers, to feed the church of Christ which he has purchased with his blood."
IJJlble.The I-Joly Bible from Ancient Eastern Manuscripts: Containing the Old and New Testaments Translated from the Peshitta, The Authortzed Bible of the
hurch of the East, by George M. Lamsa. Philadelphia: A.J. Holman,(c) 1957. "Reprinted under Authority of Presidential Decree No. 285 as amended by PD
400.")





Origin
Why, then, are there many churches today? How have they come about?











.'!ii 11/ C..:f'lslo

"Whf!L cnnd V>11111 :111e.lmc111 ,;>f U1e CJ111rc1'1 LIS to
I I, 1'l
"II o,, 1.'11 1 n f:-,sl a ncl Lo aiJ:;;t.atn from flesh meat on certain days
,I' 1
I I\ 9,,,ril n,11'y Pr11li ssor, of Chrisiian Doctrine: Comprising Dogma, Moral.
t111d Worsl1ip. New York: L;;1sa.lle Bureau,(c) 1949. (Book))

Nnte: The Bible mentions doctrines of the devil which are
La ugh t and observed by the Catholic Church.

Differences



Q, Which church claims to be universal?



"Babylon: Rome. A metaphor probably founded on Jewish usage."
(Bible. The Holy Bible, Douay Version. Nihil Obstat: John M. Feams, S.T.D.,
Imprimatur: Francis Cardinal Spellman, D.D., New York: C. Wildermann Co. Inc.,
(c) 1950. (Book)]

,· J

Rome?

Proof


Note: The four major branches of Protestantism that arose during the Reformation are Lutheranism, Presbyterianism, Anglicanism, and the Anabaptists.

11/ 111, · 1,11,0-.,1.-1,,ti 1
.J, Wlrnl h 1111' r,f ihc dis1.111Hy :,ind clis'l1Arn,1ur\y in
I '1 c U ii i:;.1111','

I\.


Moody Monthly,
Sept., 1984, p. 28
"WII h 20,800 ch;nominations in the world, supplemented by more




Not by Faith Only

1l1::i11 15.000 dislincl parachurch agencies, we have 'something for
,' Lhe carnival midway of Christianity. But the competition
,_f1'10r g lhese carnivaJ booths is anything but amusing."
l11-1ooct,, Mon.t;hly, Chicago, minois: Moody Bible Institute (Magazine))


Conclusion
We should not be surprised at the number of churches today that are not of Christ. You should believe that there is only one Church that belongs to Christ, the Church of Christ or Iglesia ni Cristo. Reject the Catholic Church and its offsprings - the various Protestant churches.


Theme: Salvation Cannot Be Attained By Faith Alone.









Introduction
The belief that it is enough for one to believe in our Lord Jesus Christ in order to be saved continues to grow in popularity. It is said that the Church is not necessa1y for salvation. That is whymany people do not recognize the value of Church membership. Is it true that the Church is not necessary in attaining salvation? Is faith alone sufficient for man to be saved?

Presentation


.P\aldanwntal qftM lglnla nt Crf.sto
liQ1D: 1bl1 pu1age le misinterpreted to mean that faith alone, to the exclusion of everything else, Is sufficient for the attainment of salvation.

What did the Apostles do to make the keeper of the prison
believe tn Christ?

Note: It was from the Lord Jesus Christ Himself that the Apostles learned the requirements for salvation.


Proof



Not by Fntth Only 41
Church of the East, by George M. Larosa. Philadelphia: A.J. Holman, (c) 1957.
"Reprinted under Autliorfty of Presidential Decree No. 285 as amended by PD
400."I

saved?



Difference
attain salvation?


Fundamental Bel qf tha Iglesta n! Cristo
), What biblical proof <":an we give to show that man cannot be JusUfled by faith only?
1\. Man ls not Justifled by faith only ....... Js. 2:24


Remain and Endure


Instructions
1. Recognize the importance of the Church for the attainment of salvation.
2. Prove your faith by means of works, that is, by becoming a member of the Church of Christ and obeying the Gospel.
3. Remain in the Church of Christ until the end.



1---- 'LE S S O N N 0. 9



OneOrganized Church
Theme: The true believers in Christ are in one organized Church, the true Church of Christ.

Introduction
"Believers in Christ" is an expression used by Protestants in referring to those who allegedly make up the body of Christ, the Church of Christ. To the Protestants, membership in a particular church or religious organization is not important; because they hold that as long as an individual believes in Christ he is a member of the Church.
There are two ways by which Protestants reject the importance of the Church for salvation. One of these is by saying that it is enough to accept Christ as one's personal Savior for one to be saved. To include anything else for alvation is considered
43

.... Jl\lndanwntQI .._,.4/tlw lflala nf crtato
equivalent to adding another savior. Another way Is by saying that membenhlp In any one particular Church or organization la not necessary for salvation. After all, for them, the body of all professing Christians worldwide ls the Church of Christ.
Presentation



a) The body is the Col. 1:18
Note: The Church is one religious body.


Note: To become a true disciple of Christ one must be baptized into the one body of Christ, the Church of Christ.


1,:,
Many parts, one body





"Division within the Church arose from unfaithfulness to Christ... has marred the body of Chiist. "
[Moody Monthly, Chicago, Illinois: Moody Bible Institute (Magazine)]


lu .P\uu:famantalBel'4(I q/ tlw lgt..ta. nt Crtato
: Protestantism wherein there are divisions does not
quality to be the true body of Christ. It ls not of Christ.
q, To whom do denominatlonalism and factionalism belong?
/\, ::itrJlt IS nf the devil Js. 3:14-16 Lamsa
llyou have bitter envying among you or strife in your hearts, do ,ic,t boast and do not lie against the truth. This wisdom does not come fr-om above, but it is earthly. sensual, devilish. For wherever envy rmd strife are, there is confusion and every sort of evil."
IJ)ible.The Holy Bible from Ancient EastemManuscrtpts:Containing the Old and New Testaments Translated from the Peshitta, The Authorized Bible o( the Church of the East. by George M. Lamsa. Philadelphia: AJ. Holman,(c) 1957. "l' cprinted under Authority of Presidential Decree No. 285 as amended by PD
400.")

Purpose


Dlsslmllarlty



Jnu Un1tmlz1.xl 47
A Because their faith is Js. 2:14, 19




Conclusion
The true believers in Christ are found in only one organization, the body of Christ - the Church of Christ. This one body is composed of those who have done the will of God and are thereby certain of salvation.

Instructions
l. Reject the belief that thetrue believers in Christ are found in various churches.
2. Believe that the true believers in Christ are in one

Note: The true believers in Christ fulfill the will of God. They are members of the one body of Christ - the organization called the Church of Christ.


organized Church which is the Church of Christ.
3. Follow Christ's command to enter in Him or become a member of the Church of Christ.



L I<: S S O N N 0. 10 J

The Church of Christ in the Philippines
Theme: It was Christ who established the Church of Christ in the Philippines by virtue of the fulfillment of prophecy.

Introduction
The Church of Christ which emerged in the Philippines in these last days was established by Christ by means of prophecy. This we will study in this lesson.
Presentation

Cl,rht in 11,,. 49





p. 169
"It cannot be without significance that the country which stands


almost at the geographical center of the Far East. the Philippines, should also be that in which Christianity has taken the deepest root... "

48

l o F'11,1J11111, 1/,rJ mr1. w
11l11i';J,t'l,"l ,-1,J, /-'l,llippi,ws. Mn,)lln
I Ir,, itr.\ C I IJtl'l\ (L\<1rdVI

Proofs



"From the far east will I bring your offspring, and from the far west I will gather you...

[Bible. A New Translation of the Bible Containing the Old and New Testaments by James Moffatt. New York: Harper & Brothers Publishers,(c) 1950]


The Church qf Chrt.st In the PhUtpplnH 51
• ... till in the far west men have awe of the Eternal, and in the east they see his brilliant deeds; for his vengeance pours out like a pent-up stream, driven by a blast of wind."
(Bible. A New Translation of the Bible Containing the Old and New Testaments by James Moffatt. New York: Harper & Brothers Publishers,(c) 1950.]

Note: This was fulfilled when the Church of Christ went overseas when Brother Eran.o Manalo officiated the first worship service in Hawaii on July 27, 1968. This was followed by another gathering of the brethren in San Francisco, California. These are the official beginnings of the Church of Christ in the Far West.

Note: The "ends of the earth" is distinct from the "end of the earth". What is the difference?


"And as he sat upon the mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world?"
(Bible. The Holy Bible, containing the Old and New Testaments, translated out of the original tongues and with the former translations diligently compared and revised, set forth in 1611 and commonly known as the King James Version, New York: American Bible Society, 1970.]



JJdl,:f Iii,; 1!1l,t!llt1 nl Cristo

A, Wl11 11 t!w ,, scun.
ll11.; c;11d J1-1 nt t tic very ..................... .Ml. 24:33

D, Wl1rit dl(I refer to by "these things" which, when seen,
.,lJ'1; 1;;;igl1s or 1J1c "ends of the earth"?

TM Church of Christ In the Phtttppineit 53

O. Who is the rock referred to on which are set those who listen and obey the words of Christ that they have heard?

Nol,1;: The prophesied world war is that which broke out on July 27, 1914 which is called First World War. Therefore, the time "ends of the earth" began in July, 1914. This is the prophesied time for the emergence of the Church of Christ in the Philippines. As a fulfillment of this prophecy, the Church of Christ was registered with the Philippine government on July 27, 1914.

,A. Christ ...................................................


Acts 4:10-11


Mt. 16:18



Conclusion: Therefore, through the instrumentality of God's messenger in the last days. Christ was able to build His Church here in the Philippines in 1914. Thus, this Church
is of God and of Christ.





[Bible. The New English Bible. Oxford: Oxford University Press,(c) 1961, 1970)

Promise


Conclusion
Thus, in order to be included among those recognized by God as His sons and daughters in the last days, you shouldbecome members of the Church of Christ. You must understand Lhc:11.
God is calling you.
This Church which emerged in the Philippines (in the Far
East) in these last days was established by virtue or the ment of tlie prophecies of God and of Christ. This isthe third group of pI eople in the Church built by Christ. This emerged in these last days after the Church established by Christ in the first century was completely led to apostasy by the false Even the spread of this Church in the Far West is alsoa fulfillment of the prophecy of God written in lhe Bible.





Brother Felix Y. Manalo: God's Messenger
in the Last Days
Th,e,ne: Brother Felix Y. Manalo is God's messenger in the last days.


Introduction
Brother Felix Manalo is the Messenger of God whom He sent to bring about the emergence of the Church of Chrtst in the Philippines. Some may ask, "How did Brother Felix Manalo become a messenger of God?" Are there prophecies in the Bible regarding his commissioning?

Presentation

M[1111)/o: M.,;y;r.;11,91.if' 111 /)rJys 55
"ThtJuwhom I have taken from the ends of the earth, and called thee from the chief men thereof, and said unto thee, Thou art my servant; I have chosen thee. and not cast thee away."
"Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand ofmy righteousness."
[Bible. The Holy Bible, containing the Old and New Testaments, translated out of the original tongues and with the former translations diligently compared and revised, set forth in 1611 and commonly known as the King James Version, New York: American Bible Society, 1970.]

Note: We are assured that this prophecy refers to the messenger in the last days because he was called from the ends of the earth. (Review the lesson about the 'ends of the

Felix Y. Manalo?




Y. Manalo was sent?

58 P\uutamental qf tlw roi.ata. nt Crtsto

l;imll,cr \:. MO}'l<:tiO: MC.'iiS<.JTliJCT"In (Ja,ys 57

sou them Europe retained the old faith. But In these days of religious toleration there are many Catholics in Protestant countries, and many Proteatanta In Catholic countries. In Germany, England, and the United States there Is a mixture, but the Protestants greatly predominate."
[Henry W. Elson, Modem Ttmes and The Living Past. Atlanta: Americc!J?- Book
Company, C 1945. (Book)] '

p. 366
"... In the north the Protestants were in control - Lutheran churches in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Iceland, the northern and central states of Germany; Calvinist or Reformed churches in Scotland, the Netherlands, Hesse, the Palatinate, and a few of the western German states. In the south the Catholics were in control - Spain, Italy, Austria, Bavaria, and elsewhere in southern Germany."
[Owen Chadwick, The Reformation. Harmondsworth, Middlesex, England: Penguin Books, (c) 1972. (Book)]




Proof









.',,•, !.J./ /,f/lD."11.Q ,-,;
q, Wt1DI. Iii I 11'!.11J, uf Lh, word
t\. 11H, Lu 1;1 ruessenger
or one who ts sent Lk. 1:19
Q, Are there Bible translators who prove that a man may be
called an angel?


Promise

Instructions

Conclusion
Therefore, this Church, the Iglesia ni Cristo (Church of Christ), belongs to God and to Christ. Brother Felix Y. Manalo is God's messenger, and this we should accept with faith.



L E S S O N N 0. 12



The Promise for Those Who Endure
Persecution
Theme: The reason behind the persecution suffered by members of the Church of Christ and the promise to those who remain faithful and firm in their faith.



Introduction
Fear of persecutions may hinder a person from joining the Church of Christ. There are instances when a man who has just started to listen to the teachings of the Church encounters persecutions immediately and is even prevented from continuing his biblical studies. Such events have caused some to quit from attending Bible Study on Doctrines in spite of their having understood the truth. To prevent such an unfortunate occurrence, it is necessary for us to know what persecution is about and how to overcome it so that it would not destroy our chances of attaining salvation.

59

Ii(/
.Fundamental B I qf tM Iglesia nt Cristo


\'." . Wl1y 0ho1.1ld ii: not surprise us that we are hated by the world?
/\. Cl1, ist. was hated ahead of us. Jn. 15:18

J\. Because Christ has chosen us ............... Jn. 15:19






[Bible. The Oxford Annotated Bible. The Holy Bible. Revised Standard Version. ed. by Herbert G. May and Bruce M. Metzger. New York: Oxford University Press
(c) 1962.]


J7;w),1.1f'u 61

Stand


Promise



Conclusion
Thus, for us to reach our desired salvation, we should endure all kinds of trials and persecutions. Persecutions cannot

, i " ./il111dn111;;;11/u/ "/ l111t: ti111/ Crl:.I
be avoided but If we triumph over them, we shall- be counted worthy In Inheriting the kingdom of heaven. Thus, whatever peraecutlons a member of the Iglesia ni Cristo encounters, he should not falter or withdraw. He should instead pray to God for assistance to overcome persecutions.



LE S S O N N O. 13



Membership in the Church of Christ
Theme: The proper way of becoming a member of the Church of Christ.




Introduction
Whoever joins the Church of Christ with wrong motives will not remain but will be separated from the Church sooner or later. Such people will not benefit from Christ's work of salvation for the Church. Thus, to prevent such an eventuality, it is necessary for a person joining the Church to know the proper way of
63

fUJ Mind11111, / ./,Jl,,k,'/r, 11i Crf. ti
I n rn,,r,11,, _.;.1$ L::i1.1gl1I by tilt: Bil1ll.lanrl in lmow ;,tlso the possess in seelung roernbcrship i11 11 w

Presentation

[Bible. The Jerusalem Bible, With Abridged Introductions and Notes, London: Darton, Longman and Todd,(c) 1966, 1967, 1968)



[Bible. God's Promise For People of Today, Contemporary English Version, U.S.A.: Thomas Nelson Inc.,(c) 1995)

Conclusion: Thus, one should join the Church of Christ for the right reason - not just togive in to the wishes of parents, wife or husband. brother or sister, employer, or for any personal gain or selfish interest.

Example


I I ;lirhl 65


"'But some of you refuse to have faith in me.' Jesus said this, because from the beginning he knew who would have faith in him. He also knew which one would betray him."
[Bible. God's Promise For People of Today, Contemporary English Version,
U.S.A.: Thomas Nelson Inc.,(c) 1995.)



"Because of what Jesus said, many of his disciples turned their backs on him and stopped following
[Bible. God's Promise For People of Today, Contemporary English Version, U.S.A.: Thomas Nelson Inc.,(c) 1995.)


til_f lldt,:/R of k,-:to 11/ Crt to
..rrr,;d::t_v, l


Explanation



/\frmlvrsl,tr, 111,11111Cl11wr1, qfC/,rl-li


Instruction: All the teachings and rules of discipline of the Church should be followed because obedience to all of these is the mark of a true member of the Church.


Conclusion
The proper way of becoming a member of the Church of Christ is through faith in God and in Christ. This should be accompanied by the recognition of the importance of the Church and of God's commissioning.
If a man joins the Church of Christ properly he can obey all
the commandments, and this proves that he is a true member of the Church. He is not easily offended; he will not draw back. Instead, he will remain firm and strong in his election.


·· -,-· ....··-----···-----------
L F; S S O N N 0. 14
. ---------------- ----


The Lord Jesus Christ
(Part I)

Theme: The attributes of Christ and His true nature.

Introduction
It is important foreveryone to know the belief of the Church of Christ concerning Christ because Godhas placed Christ in the position of Redeemer and Savior of man. Heis the founder and head of the Church of Christ. Thus, it is of prime importance that anyone who joins the Church of Christ should know the attributes of Christ and howweshould recognize Him. What His attributes are and what His nature is, are the things we shall study in this lesson.
68

'I ,Jc, -,1.'l Cl1r1.s1.
The attributes of Christ
Himself Mt. 3:17
Note: Never has any correct translation of the Bible said that Christ is Godthe Son. What can be read in the Bible is the fact that Christ is the Son of God.

Note: These attributes of Christ which the Bible teaches are recognized and accepted by the Church of Christ. Toe accusation that wearedegrading Christ has no factual basis.



will God do to Him at the end?



ff) Jl'undanwntal q/C,W 1gi..1a mCrum
:1. Who hu not sinned among men according to the Bible?
/\., Chrlat ..................................................... I Pt. 2:21-22

q, l1Chri1t holy or without sin because of His own power? A, Because He is made holy by the Father... Jn. 10:36
Conclusion: All the honors and great attributes of Christ
mentioned in the verses we have read are not indicative of His nature.

The nature of Christ
0- Despite the great attributes of Christ, what is His true nature, according to Jesus Himself?
Note: In this instance Christ clearly introduced Himself as a man. Christ has never said that He is the true God. If He were the true God, He would have introduced Himself as such.




r-h.1;,;LOn;I tl
"Ttn.,s. for cxarnple, it was.nol unUI 325 A.D., at: the Council of
Nic 1ca, thal the Church defined for us lhat it wasan article of faith that.
.Jesus is truly God."
\m::v.Clement.H. Crock, Discourses on the Apostles' Creed. Nihil Obstat: Arthur
J. Scanlan, Imprimatur: Patrick Cardinal Hayes. New York City: Joseph F. Wagner. Inc.,(c) 1938.]


Conclusion
Therefore, the Bible teaches that we should honor and worship Christ, recognize Him as the Son of God, Savior, and the only Mediator between God and men, and the only holy man who has not committed sin. But, in spite of these attributes, the truth remains, as declared by our Lord Jesus Christ Himself. that He
is man.
(In the next lesson the Bible will show us the differences between God and Christ and the errors of those who teach that Christ is God in their manner of using the Bible.)



The Catholic invention






The Lord Jesus Christ
(Part II)

Theme: The distinctions between God and Christ and the biblical proofs that the true God is not Christ.

TIii-' 73

4) God does not get Is. 40:28 NIV
while Christ got tired .......... ........ . Jn. 4:6 NN

/soiah 40:28
"Do you not know? Have you not heard? The LoRD is the everlasting
Cod. the Creator of the ends of the earth. Hewill not grow tired or weary. and his understanding no one can fathom...
John 4:6
"Jacob"s well was there, and Jesus, tired as he was from the journey, sat down by the well "
(Bible. The Holy Bible, New International Version containing the Old Testament and the New Testament. New York: International Bible Society,(c) 1978.)



Proof








Introduction
If all people would rely solely on the Bible in their belief about the nature of Christ, no one would have fallen into the false belief that Christ is the true God. This is so because it is shown clearly in the Bible that God and Christ are two different beings.
Presentation




2) God is immortal ...........................
while Christ died .........................
3) The true God does not recognize any other God besides Himself ... . while Christ deifies God ..............
72

ITI.m. 1:17
Jn. 19:30, 33

Is. 44:8
Mk. 15:34

God?

., Auldanwntal Bel qftM IQIN&a nf Cluto
lllnclu




LESS ON N0. 16

0, God, then whyls He able to perform miracles?
/\, It who works In Him. Acts 2:22

'
q, What


le the evil in accepting that Christ is God, simply

The Lord Jesus Christ

because in Him ls shown the wonderful works done by God?
I\, Many would qualify to be gods - miracles were also
shown by means of Paul. Acts 19:11-12

(Part III)

Theme: Erroneous interpretations and wrong translations of biblical texts are the bases of those who teach that Christ is the true God.





Note: Christ's resurrection demonstrates that He died while the Bible proves that God is immortal. The Bible is clear on the fact that Christ was resurrected by God, the reason why He was brought back to life.

Conclusion
The clear distinctions between Christ and God prove that the true God is not Christ. Our Lord Jesus Christ possesses many attributes which surpass those of ordinary men but these do not show that Christ is God. The true God has attributes not found in Christ. If Christ did wonderful things like miracles, all these were done by God through Christ.
(In the next lesson we will study how biblical verses are misinterpreted and used erroneously by those who teach that Christ is God).




Introduction
Teachers of the "Christ is God" doctrine also use the Bible. They cite verses to prove their contention. But we assure you that if the biblical texts being used are correctly translated, there would be nothing in the Bible that shows Christ is the true God. We will examine now some of the verses used by these preachers and find out how they use such verses.
John 1:1, 14
Note: The verse does not say Christ is the lrue God.


1e Fundamental .S.1'4/'a qf ttw lgleata nt Crt.sto
MSt.. John employs the t.enn Word. It ts so used only by St. John and the Son as a kind of intellectual emanation from the Father,"
[Utbl,r, 'l'hr. I loly Dible. Douay Version. Nth.ii Obstat: John M. Fearns, S.T.D., Imprimatur: Francis Cardinal Spellman, D.D. Ne York: C, Wildennann Co., Inc., IC) l915D.) .
N.Q.k: What the verse says is that the Word was with God. If the Word which was with God were God in nature, and the GodWhohad the Word was also God in nature, there would be two Gods. This contradicts biblical teachings.

Conclusion: Therefore, Christ had no existence in the ning but the idea concerning Him was already in the mind, or plan, of God, hence only a word.
Conclusion: Thus, in the statement "The Word was God", the term "God" is not used as a noun but as an adjective. The term is used to describe the term "Word".

1,s Cl,r(st, 77

Wh 1t. does the statement "And the Wm-cl was made flesh"
mean?

I John 5:20

Note: If Christ were the true God, there should have been a clear statement from Him that Heis introducing Himself as the true Godbecause, according to I John 5:20, the reason for the coming of the Son of God (Christ) is to introduce to the work). the true God. If He was not able to do this, then His coming would have been in vain. But we know that oneof the reasons of His coming was fulfilled because He was able lo introduce to the world who the true God is.



FundanwntaL S.114/'1 qf tM nt Cruto
Romana 9:IS
q, What wrongly translated verse have the teachers of the "Christ 111 God" doctrine used?
A hlt;;S Cd l'orcver" Rom. 9:5 KN
"'Wt1o c:a. _n;th<.f: 1t;hers. and of whom as concerning the flesh Christ
ccrrTli;. wl'H.>IS all. God blessed for ever. Amen."
The Holy Bible, containing the Old and New Testaments, translated out
, ,111'1'11;;original tongues and with the former translations diligently compared and rtivl::i<:d, set forth ln 1611 and commonly known as the King James Version, New 'Ycalc American Bible Society, 1970.]




Note: Iri the Revised Standard Version the part that says, "God who is over all be blessed for ever" - is written as a separate sentence. It is a doxology or praise which refers to our God, the Father.


Tlw t"rcl Jesus Cnrtst 7
..... but the choice Is probably to be made between the KJV and lhe nsv l.rans.lations. The majority of modern commentators favor the latter because of the unlikelihood of Paul"s having here referred to
Christ as :·
IThe Interpreter's Bible. The Holy Scriptures in the King James and Revised Standard Versions with General Articles and Introduction, Exegesis, Exposition For Each Book of the Bible. In 1\velve Volumes. Nashville: Abingdon. Vol. IX. (Book))

Conclusion: Thus, Christ is not the one referred to as God in Romans 9:5. This verse as wrongly translated is being used as a basis by the teachers of the "Christ is God" doctrine.

Isaiah 9:6


Note: Since the prophesied one is not the Everlasting Father, hence, He is not the Mighty God.


tll Jl'undamantal Uw Igwala nt Cristo
Romana 9:5
. What wrongly translated verse have the teachers of the
"Chrt11t is God" doctrine used?
A, "Cofl hh1SS".!d fo1;e:;v< r" •... ............. ... .. ...... Rom. 9:5 KJV
''Wh,,.sa arc fathers, and of whom as concerning the flesh Christ
i'<JJrtt:. who IS over all. God blessed for ever. Amen."
Holy IJlblc, containing the Old and New Testaments, translated out c,rtglnal tongues and with the former translations diligently compared and set. forth in 1611 and commonly known as the King James Version, New York: American Bible Society, 1970.)



Note: In the Revised Standard Version the part that says, "God who is over all be blessed for ever" - is written as a separate sentence. It is a doxology or praise which refers to our God, the Father.

TM Lord. Chrtet 79
"... but the choice is probably to be made between the KJV and the RSV translations. The majority of modem commentators favor the latter because of the unlikelihood of Paul's having here referred to Christ as 'God' "
[The Interpreter's Bible. The Holy Scriptures in the King James and Revised Standard Versions with General Articles and Introduction, Exegesis, Exposition For Each Book of the Bible. In Twelve Volumes. Nashville: Abingdon. Vol. IX.
I
Conclusion: Thus, Christ is not the one referred to as God in Romans 9:5. This verse as wrongly translated is being used as a basis by the teachers of the "Christ is God" doctrine.

Isaiah 9:6

.• , ) Jl\uutamentaL S."4(1 qf tlw n! Cristo
(J. Why 11 the government that would be placed on the
¦ houldere of Christ called Mighty God and Everlasting Father?
I\. ,Because this came from the Father ... Mt. 28:18

Conclusion: Thus, the teachers of the "Christ is God" doctrine give wrong meanings or interpretations to these verses as they use them in their teachings. We should not allow them to deceive us.

The Holy Spirit




Conclusion
Therefore, we should not allow ourselves to be deceived by the teachers who say Christ is the true God even if they use biblical verses to back up their contentions. This is because we cannot read from the Bible any verse which states that Christ affirms He is the true God. Why then are they able to use some biblical verses? These verses are given erroneous meanings or false interpretations by false teachers or they are translated incorrectly.




LESSON NO. 17
bifii4iii&&k m

Leading a New Life
Theme: It is the obligation of the members of the Church of Christ to lead a :riew life.

Introduction
To attain salvation, it is not enough that a person simply joins and becomes a member of the Church of Christ. Our Savior Jesus Christ demands that we follow the fundamental change in way oflife He has set up for us. This renewal is the subject of the present lesson.

Presentation

81

B2 Jl\lnr:lanwrUII... 4/rlw lglalamCNeo
leaving the former evil ways?


Obligation


L,_x1dl1t1/ 11 N;J,11Uf,,




Promise


Warning

Conclusion
We have learned that it is notenough just tobein the Church of Christ; one should undergo a complete renewal of Ufe. The member who has turned a newlife truly belongs to Christ and to God. Put into practice the commandments we have received.





Worship Services
Th,ern,e: It is the responsibility of the members of the Church of Christ to attend worship services on the days set for them.

Introduction
Twice a week, members of the Church of Christ hold worship services. Such congregational worship is conducted in the chapel or house of worship. We should give great value to this duty and not disregard or neglect it. On any day that a worship service is set by the Church, weshould attend it as it is our duty to worship God.
Presentation
Note: God our Father seeks the true worshippers. There are, of course, worshippers who are not true. The true worshippers are those who have the right and privilege to worship God because they have been redeemed or cleansed
84

nrp. 85
by the blood of Christ. and these are the members of the Church of Christ.

Note: It is really the obligation of all people created by God to worship Him as their Creator. But because the world has turned away from God, the ones expected by God to render Him true worship are the members of the Church of Christ, who are His people in these last days.




Hi; 11\mdamental Bel q/tM nf Crtsto
q. When did the flrat Church perfonn their gathering together
or worship services?

J. Why 1B IL th;;fl, in the Church of Christ, aside from Sunday, thoretrc other days set also for worship seivices? Were there S Lhal the first Church performed worship seivices on otJJer days aside from the first day of the week?
A Tl:.H:Te was a time when they worshipped
everyday Acts 2:46



n,p 87

Worship God in proper attire

the house of the Lord with utmost reverence?


Note: According to this verse, everyone should be silent in His presence: thus, worship in the Church of Christ is a solemn occasion. We do not behave in an unruly manner. We do not engage in useless conversation; neither do we come and go anywhere at leisure. And this orderliness should be maintained.


,'i,") /.l ilu;luli.:$1!.J1.1i

l\. :11,1d vr<IQ1 1y worsl'li['

Wu,' l1ip .Sw,61)(1;, S
"Al1RAY. HOLY ... An expres5icm indicating 'proper

. .........................................-..... I Cor. 14:26, 40 'JE\T
I ;,11;1, :1ny brolJ-1ers. When you r,ncetfor worship, one n l1_vTnn. n t teaching, another a revelation from God, ru:wll1C1" ;.i, 'rri1.,s ::tge SIrange tongues, and still another the
,1sr,L111:<ll ofwhal is said. Everything must be of help to the Church.
rnus1 be done in a proper and orderly way."
IJ;;>i/J/c. Coucl N,ows Bible, The Bible in Today's English Version, Catholic Study
<Iii iOn. Nashville, U.S.A.: Catholic Bible Press,(c) 1979.)

l'l'l',e Interpreter's Dictionary oft:he Bible. Vol. I, p. 231)


Ps. 96:9
"Worship the LORD in holy array; tremble before him, all the


Note: Holy array during worship service is part of the command of orderliness. Ifwe obey the command to sing, to pray, to give offerings, and to enter the house of worship, we should also, in like manner, obey the command to be in holy array.
We do not present ourselves to our fellowmen in underwear. The kind of attire we wear when we ourselves before a person indicates the degree of respect we have for that person. If for other people we show our respect in the kind of clothing we wear, the more we should show respect in the attire we wear whenever we present ourselves before God in the worship service.


earth!"

Commentary
"Worship... in holy array, i.e., garments that are ritually clean and fitting for the sacred occasion."
[The Interpreter's Bible. The Holy Scriptures in the King James and Revised Standard Versions with General Articles and Introduction, Exegesis, Exposition For Each Book of the Bible. In Twelve Volumes. Nashville: Abingdon. Vol. IV)

Note: The attire we wear should befit the sacredness of the occasion. Worship service is a formal occasion and it calls for formal attire. There are still others who have not yet recognized the sanctity of our congregational gathering with due respect. Teaching us the things that weshould do is part of preparing us to be presentable to God.
Promise



IQ, l\utdanwnlal.._qfdlei,.fa"' ere.tu
Great will be received from God by who attend worship services because the Splrtt Who 1trengt.hene their spiritual life dwells In them and confirms
them In their love.



[LESSON N 0. 19



Our Voluntary Contributions

Conclusion
We believe that attendance at worship services is an obligation to God. We receive great blessings from worship services because we experience the Spirit of Christ Who strengthens and confirms us.


Theme: It is God's command that we give butions and Thanksgiving offerings.
















Introduction
One ofthe obligations ofthemembers ofthe Church of Christ is the giving of contributions and thanksgiving offerings. But we must understand clearly that the giving of contributions by members of the Church is not in any way similar to the giving of alms to beggars. Ifwe hear some people criticizing our giving of contributions and thanksgiving offerings, we must realize that these are but attempts to destroy our belief. We do such not because the ministers command it on their own authority but because this is based on the truth written in the Bible.

Presentation

91


R2 P'undamP.ntal 13P.ltf!f." qfthP. lglP.sta nl Cristo
nr"lect to do "ood nnd to share what you have, for ,mch sacriflces are pleai.ln to God,"
llltblr.. '111r Oxforcl Aunotatcd Utble. The Holy Bible. Revised Standard Version. by llrrhr.rt. G. Muy und Bruce M. Metzger. New York: Oxford University J'rr.Nf'I, 0 J 962.)

N,Qk: The command to give contributions is written in the Bible and is not a man-made commandment preached by the ministers of the Church. If this is fulfilled by His servants, God will be truly pleased.

Conclusion: It is the duty of every member of the Church of Christ to give contributions. We should do this edly and cheerfully knowing that this truly pleases God.

Obligation



OurVolwwut1 Contrtbuttons 93
[Bfb!e. Toe Oxford Annotated Bible. The Holy Bible. Revised Standard Version.
ed. by Herbert G. May and Bruce M. Metzger. New York: Oxford University Press,
(c) 1962.)

Explain: Giving contributions is an obligation or responsibility to God. To fail to do this is to commit a sin.


Instruction: We should prepare beforehand our butions. We should set aside a certain portion of our income for this. We should not give just what is in excess or what is left of our income after budgetting for our needs but set aside our contributions in the same manner we set aside for our needs. Considering the fact that this is for God. we should consider it more important than the rest of our needs.




M 1111/, 11,.. rn 1n

W'l1y should we not be offended or tight-fisted in giving contributions?


Conclusion: Thus, poverty is not an excuse to God for failure to give contributions. Poverty of even greater proportions were suffered by the early Christians, but they still gave contributions. The same thing is being done by many members of the Church of Christ today.
The Offering of Thanksgiving


Our Voluntary Contributions !)5

Note: lt is commanded that we give thanks for everything. The anniversary of the Church is a great thing for us and hence an occasion to be thankful for.




:1{ q/ttw t,i.,ta nt Crtato
1. Why should we prepare our offering in this manner?
/\. To be ready as a matter of generosity
and not as a grudging obltgatlon ....... II Cor. 9:5 lnatructtop: The easiest way to prepare our offering for thankeglving is by weekly savings. (Teach how this is done.)

Promise
A,. God can pour abundant blessings .... II Cor. 9:7-8 Emphasize: The brethren who set aside something for their offering to God do not lose anything nor do they stand tolose, because God has prepared for them blessings even in this life.


Conclusion
Thus, we should believe that we, members of the Church of Christ, have obligations to give contributions and offerings. We should do this wholeheartedly, freely and gladly. But, to enable us to give our offerings in this manner, weshould set them aside. We should not be offended in doing this because God commanded such and the amount that wegive really comes from Him. Most of all, ifwe contribute, we are laying up a foundation for the attainment of true life.



LESSON N 0. 20


The Brotherhood
Theme: God commands that the brethren should love one another.

Introduction
Members of the Church of Christ have a very unique tionship with one another. They constitute a brotherhood lished by Christ and willed by God. Thus, the members of the Church should associate and relate with one another in accordance with the teachings of Christ so that the brotherhood He envisioned will be fulfilled in the Church He founded.

Presentation


97

Jl\mdamenml Bel qf tha lglesfa nt Cristo
, Why 11 the penon who loves hts brethren in the Church
recognized u a true disciple of Christ?
I\, He made us all brothers Mt. 23:8
Concluaton: Therefore, you should regard all members of the
Church, including ministers, as your brothers (or sisters, as the case may be). Let us treat one another as equals within the Church.

The Method

Instrnction: We should bear with one another. Let us help the less fortunate brethren and let us not withhold from them whatever good things we can do for them.





'1'I u.; LJrul.l LCrl UJLJCl

nol Ol1.C againsl.another, brethren, les1 ye be condemned: beholcl. the ,i udge sl.andeth before the door."
[Bible. The Holy Bible, containing the Old and New Testaments, translated out of the original tongues and with the former translations diligently compared and revised, set forth in 1611 and commonly known as the King James Version, New York: American Bible Society, 1970.)

Instruction: This grudging against each other is the work of the people of the world and not of the true disciples of Christ. We should not do it.



Instruction: We should not do what others do who borrow without returning what they borrowed or asking for a loan of money and never paying it back. We should avoid doing evil to brethren in the Church.


JO() Fundamental lJ,rl s qf the nt Cristo
"ln11leml, one Christian goes to court against. another and 1111hrllevrr'4 Juclgr the case!"
IH!hln, Oood N11wK IJ!blr., The Bible In Today's English Version, Catholic Study cll11on, Nm1hvlllr., U.S.A.: Catholic Bible Press,(c) 1979.]

Inst.met.ton: If somehow a brother or a sister in the faith has done us wrong, we should not sue him or her ip court. God does not allow us to do this.


Conclusion: If conflicts arise among us, the proper thing to do to settle or resolve them is to bring them to the attention of the Administration of the Church.


Note: The offended party is told by Christ to approach the offender. We are not told to avoid whoever offends us, much less to detest him or her. Christ commands instead that we talk privately first with those who offend us.


The Brotherhood 101
[Bible. Good News Bible, The Bible In Today's English Version, Catholic Study Edition. Nashville, U.S.A.: Catholic Bible Press,(c) 1979.]

Instruction: If he or she does not listen to you, you may bring an elder or two in the Church to serve as witnesses in your talk for the sake of reconciliation. Do this instead of going to court.

Instruction: If despite the steps that you have taken, he or she still refuses to be reconciled, bring the matter to the Church Administration. If he or she still refuses to listen to the Church Administration, Christ tells us to regard him or her as a Gentile.
Conclusion: Thetefore, he or she who refuses to be reconciled with his or her brethren in the Church, in spite of the mediation of the Church Administration, will be expelled from the Church.

(nl. 1111, ly/J.:su;, 11/ c,t
IBfbi., The Oxford Annotated Bible. The Holy Bible. Revised Standard Version. ed. by Herbert 0. May and Bruce M. Metzger. New York: Oxford University Press, 01 82,1
Instruction: We should not allow ourselves to go on
harboring hatred or anger against anyone. It does not mean we should not attend worship services while we are still angcy with someone but that weshould be reconciled at once with him or her.


I LESSON No. 21
@ Ą# .

Other Prohibitions
Theme: God forbids the eating of blood and intermarriage with a nonmember.





Warning

Conclusion: Whoever harbors hatred against his or her brethren is in danger of damnation.

Conclusion
We must observe and safeguard the brotherhood in the Church not only by means of calling each other "brother" or "sister" but more so by love and concern for_our brethren's welfare. We should be reconciled at once with whomever we have differences and we should not harbor hatred against anyone.


Introduction
Members of the Church of Christ are prohibited from eating blood and from contracting marriage with those of other faiths. These prohibitions are criticized by our detractors especially in the Philippines where the eating of blood and mixed marriages are commonplace. We are undaunted, however. in observing such prohibitions because we know too well who their author is.
Presentation
Note: God stated clearly which things may be eaten and which should not be eaten. He forbids the eating of blood.

103

l-'111 I 1, 111 Crt.s

The Reason
Note: Blood is not given as food.


Explain: During the time of the Israelites, they offered the blood of animals on the altar to atone for their sins. The purpose for which God intended blood to be used is holy and not for purposes of eating.



Other ProhtbttfDns 105

Instruction: In preparing or dressing fowls and animals prior to cooking, make sure to pour out the blood.

Warning
Conclusion: Therefore, we should nowstay away and refrain from eating blood or whatever food mixed with blood if we do not want to become an enemy of God and be expelled from His people.

On Marriage

[Bible. The Holy Bible from Ancient Eastern Manuscripts; Containing the Oki ,tncl New Testaments Translated from the Peshitt.a, The Authorized Bible or I.he
Church of the East. by George M. Lamsa. Philadelphia: A.J. Holman,@ 1.957. "Reprinted under Authority of Presidential Decree No. 285 as amended by PD 400."]

Note: Even engagement with anyone who is not a member of His people is also forbidden.


,,j fql,: 'Jf,, tu

,J, What wlll we lose if we love the world?
/\. Tlrn lov of the l?'ather .. ... .. .. .. .. .. .. ... I Jn. 2: 15
Conduston: Therefore, it is such a great sin for a member of the Church of Christ to marry a nonmember. This will mean losing God's love for us.



L E S S O N N 0. 22


On Baptism
Theme: Baptism is necessary for one to become a disciple of Christ.





Instruction: If you desire to get married, show your respect for your parents by informing them of your intentions to do so. Do not elope just toget married. Be sure toget permission from your parents. Just courting or being engaged with a non-member is already prohibited by God. Those of you who are still single, should not marry an unbeliever.
You are also commanded to avoid joining organizations or labor unions whose principles run in conflict with biblical teachings.












Introduction
Although many of those who become members of the Church of Christ have been baptized already in their former religions, they should realize that thebaptism they received is not the kind commanded by our Lord Jesus Christ: those who administered it have no authority to preach and to baptize. Hence. those baptized by them have not received the blessings associated with the baptism commanded by Christ.

Presentation

Note: For one to become a disciple of Christ, he cannot avoid being baptized.

107

JO, l"undtuMntal .s.1'4(1 qfttw nl Cristo
g, What other ble11tng le received In the true baptism?


O,1.



109

g, What did Christ assure those who receive the true baptism?
Conclusion: Therefore, it is vital that we receive the true
baptism so that not only will we become disciples of Christ
but also have our sins forgiven and attain salvation.

On the mode of Baptism



"We were therefore buried with him through baptism into death in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, we too may live a new life."
[Bible. The Holy Bible. New International Version containing the OldTestament and the New Testament, New York: International Bible Society,(c) 1978.]

Note: Those who receive the true baptism are "buried" according to Apostle Paul. Therefore baptism is likened to a burial. Thus the person baptized is immersed in water as though he is being buried.


"Now John also was baptising at Aenon near Salim, because there was plenty of water, and people were constantly coming to be baptised."

[Bible. The Holy International Version containing the OldTestament and the NewTestament, New York: International Bible Society,(c) 1978.]



Conclusion: Thus, in the Church of Christ, baptism is done by immersion in water because this is the manner taught by the Bible and even Catholic priests agree that this is so.



no q/tM lgr.aftl "' Cream
Cardinal Olbborw, ffw .Pufth q/Our Fatlwra, New York: P.J. Kenedy &
Iona, o 1117, IBookJI
g, What 11 wrong if we change the commandment of God by
addin& to or subtracting from what He has commanded?

- They will not be saved Rev. 22:18-19

Who should be baptized




"Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law: for sin is the transgression of the law." '
(Bible. The Holy Bible, containing the Old and New Testaments, translated out of the original tongues and with the former translations diligently compared and revised, set forth in 1611 and commonly known as the King James Version, New York: American Bible Society, 1970.)

U11 l)c,c1>fi;Jr11 111
Conch.tsi(m: Thus, in the Church or Christ. infants are not baptized because they cannot believe yet and they have not transgressed any law. Therefore, they have nothing to repent of.


"Then children were brought to him that he might lay his hands on them and pray. The disciples rebuked the people; but Jesus said, 'Let the children come to me, and do not hinder them; for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven."

[Bible. The Oxford Annotated Bible. The Holy Bible. Revised Standard Version. ed. by Herbert G. Mayand Bruce M. Metzger. New York: Oxford University Press,
(c) 1962.]

Instruction: Do not allow your children to be baptized or confirmed in other religions. If you are already baptized, offer them so that they may be prayed for if they are not yet ready to listen to teachings.

Obligation

"In the same way; count yourselves dead to sin but alive to God in Christ Jesus."

[Bible. The Holy Bible. New International Version containing I he Old Te,;tamcnt and the New Testament, New York: International Bible Society, (c) 1978.J


"For we know that our old self was crucified with him so Lhat the body of sin might be done away with, that we should no longer l:ie slaves to sin."

[Bible. 'The Holy Bible. New International Version containing I.he Old Tt:,;t:amcnl. and the New Testament, New York: International Bible Society,(c) 1978.J


,,,


/ I 1,'/i.J;; l .itiCr/;JLu
,g1it. w111, r1,; i,<Jyn1.1r fo1 w,.tj' uf l'ifc. to p1J t off

n tilapl,hm 113
IB(b/e. The Holy Bible, containlng the Old and New Testaments, translated out

,11,i ;':I'll. 111111,,11 It\ b i111J l l>y clesiret;."

[ / I l\.ily I ill;I, . N,:w III I 1i1Liu1 :9J cunl ai1'1i1 g the Old Teslament
111,d N1 W?'i!:il r11w',;1l. New Y11rlc lfllernational Bible Society. (c) 1978.]

. I 1, ,w do we put lo death the old self?
A,. nicl 01,1rselves or all the works
of the flesh Col. 3:5, 8-9 NW

"P1,.1I. lo death, therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly nature: S(:xual immorality, impurity, lust, evil desires and greed, which is idolatry. But now you must rid yourselves of all such things as these: 1nger. rage, malice, slander, and filthy languages from your lips. Donot lie to each other, since you have taken' off your old self with its practices."
IBible. The Holy Bible. New International Version containing the Old Testament and the New Testament, New York: International Bible Society,(c) 1978.]

Instruction: We should prepare ourselves to receive the holy baptism by means of a complete renewal of life. Let us leave behind our old ways which are against the will of God. Let us repent from our sins so that when we receive baptism God will forgive us.




f lhe origlnal tongues and With the former translations diligently compared and revised, set forth in 1611 and commonly known as the King James Version, New York: American Bible Society, 1970.f


"Have this mind among yourselves, which you have in Christ Jesus,
"And being found in human form he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even death on a cross."

[Bible. The Oxford Annotated Bible. The Holy Bible. Revised Standard Version. ed. by HerbertG. May and Bruce M. Metzger. New York: Oxford University Press,
(c) 1962.1

Conclusion
Therefore, if we want to become true disciples of Chrtst we should first receive baptism to have our sin. forgiven, and to attain salvation. Let us prepare ourselves for this very holy undertaking by means of leading a righteous way of life which is in accordance with the will of God.







Missionary Work and Praying
Th.erne: :Each member of the Church of Christ is obliged to do missionary work and should learn how to pray.

Introduction
The blessing of becoming a meinber of the Church of Christ is immeasurable. As a member of the Church of Christ a person \ not only acquires the right and privilege to serve God but also attains the salvation of his soul. This good fortune, however, must not be kept to ourselves. It is our obligation to share it with our fellowmen. Thus, each member of the Church should take part in missionary work.
And because our membership in the Church of Christ is
such a valuable thing, we also should learn to pray properly to
\
God so that wemaybeable to keep and retain this great blessing.
We will study these two responsibilities of the members of the Church of Christ in this lesson.
Presentation
114

M't. s'lv11an.1Wotk c,,I(/, 1 115


Note: The world in which we live is in total darkness because over this world reigns all kinds of crookedness and evil. As members of the Church of Christ we are made the light of the world. We should show our distinction from the people of the world through our good deeds. This is how we should serve as light amidst a dark world.



How missionary work is done

(
Instruction: We also should do what the Samaritan woman did - invite people to listen to the Gospel. Invite first your relatives and friends who are not yet members of the Church of Christ.


IJI 11/tlw .r,r.ala. nt Crlato

117

• , .. ,natch othen from the fire and save them; to other.sshow

mercy, mixed wtth rear-hating even the clothing stained by corrupted
Oeah,"
(BUJr., Th .NoJy Bible. New International Version containing the Old Testament
and the NewTeatament. New York: International Bible Society,(c) 1962.J
Expie.Jn: The people of the world are condemned by God to die in the lake of fire which is the second death. The only way to save them from such condemnation is to bring them into the Church. Thus, we must guide them to listen to the teachings of God.


Praying


Note: We all have needs in this life, and thus we must learn how to pray to make these known to God and to overcome worries.

Instruction: If somebody is sick among you, you may call on the minister or the Church leaders so that they may pray for you and anoint you with oil. Let us believe in the promise of God that He will cure our illness.







When to pray

Instruction: We should not forget to pray -
• Before eating
• Before leaving for work, before going to school
• Upon arrival from work or school or wherever we come from
• Before sleeping at night
• Upon waking up in the morning
• To seek forgiveness of sins and to ask God to increase our faith; to ask for assistance in your livelihood, to ask to be safeguarded from temptation and from the many worries of life
• At all times depending on our needs and situations

Q, Should the true servants of God get tired of praying?

Obligation

Note: Thus, there are people who pray but do nol receive what they ask for from God because they doubt aJlcl do nol believe.

Jl8 Fundamental qf tha IgZ.sla nt Crtaw
rm.tc: We ehould be able to fulfill these conditions to ensure that God will answer our prayers. If we become obedient to God's commandments and do what pleases Him, He would eurely respond whenever we call on Him.



Instruction: Therefore, members of the Church of Christ do not recite their prayers. We should not do what Catholics do
- repetitious prayers.


Conclusion
He who participates in missionary wo'rk and knows how to pray properly will become stable and strong in the faith. Both of these works are commanded by God and should be valued by all members of the Church of Christ.



L E S S O N N O. 24


The Church Administration
Theme: Each member of the Church of Christ should be listed with the Church and should submit to the authority of the Church nistration.

Introduction
We should know that to ensure our salvation, we should remain members of the Church of Christ. For this reason, it is important that we know how to keep and maintain our ship in the Church. What is our duty as members to prevent our link with the Church from being cut off and to ensure our salvation?

Presentation

120 Fundamental Bel s qf the Iglesia nt Cristo
work will be a Joy, not a burden, for that would be of no advantage to you.
[Utble. The I loly l31hle. New International Version containing the Old Testament
nnrl the New Testament, New York: International Bible Society,(c) 1978.]

Explain: It is God who placed the administration in the Church and has given it the responsibility to watch over us. It is our obligation to submit to and obey the Church Administration. Unlike in other religions, members of the Church of Christ are lovingly cared for and that their sei:vice to God is administered properly.


Explain: In the Church of Christ there is someone whom God gives the authority to administer His people and to make His words known to them. Th present Executive Minister of the Church of Christ is Brother Era.no G. Manalo.

Q; Aside from the over-all administrator or Executive Minister, to whom else should we submit ourselves?

. f'h!.:Ci I, ACl I li'Ol/.1.111, 121
The xecutive Minister has assistants in administering us. Thus, there are ministers, evangelical workers, and locale Church leaders overseeing us and administering our service to God. Each of us should submit to the authority of the Church Administration so that they may continue to administer us in our services to God.
Note: On this occasion, Christ was speaking to the Apostles to whom He gave the Administration of His Church in the first centu:ry. Christ made sure that whomever the Apostles would bind on earth would also be bound in heaven, and whomever they would loose on earth would also be loosed in heaven. In these last days, God has also placed an Administration in the Church. Whomever the Church Administration binds on earth will also be bound in heaven and whomever the Administration will loose on earth will also be loosed in heaven.
Note: The commandments or the words of God are likened to a bind by the Bible. Thus, those with the authority l.o bind God's words on man is the Church Administration because this bind is given to them alone to reveal to man the words of God (Col. 1:25).

I' <,;rt. W
Instruction: What is one of the regulations being set by the Administration which we should obey so that we may remain within the Administration or bound by it?
Each and every member must be listed in the Church so that he maybe properly administered in his services to God. Whoever is not listed in the Church registry is not recognized as a member.
Note: If your name does not appear in the Church's registry on earth, it does not appear in the registry in heaven (the Book of Life). If you are not listed with the Church, you are not considered a member and therefore you will not be saved on the Day of Judgment.

TheChurchAdmtntstratton 123
"God wHl judge those outside. 'Expel the wicked man from among you."'
[Bible. The Holy Bible. New International Version containing the Old Testament and the New Testament, New York: International Bible Society,(c) 1978.)

Note: If those bound on earth are those whoremain members of the Church then those who are loosed are those removed from membership or expelled from the Church. Remember that those loosed on earth are also loosed in heaven.


A They will be burned .......................... Jn. 15:6 Conclusion: Whoever does not remain a member of the Church will not be saved. Therefore, let us avoid those things that can cause our separation from the Church or those that can cause our names to be delisted from the Church registry. Those not listed are not counted as members and will not be saved.




J:J4 P"ltndaTMntal Dttlilf/'t1 qf the Iglesia nt Cristo
Remaining In the Church




Conclusion: Therefore, to ensure our salvation, we should remain in the Church of Christ until the end (end of our life or end of the world).

'/'Ir, c:11,rrcl'i 125

Carefully give Lhe following instructions to the baptismal tcmdidatc:
1. After your baptism, you should list your name with the Secretariat in your locale and inform them of your present address.
2. If you change residence, do not forget to inform your group overseer. If your new residence is outside the jurisdiction of the locale where you are listed, get a certificate of transfer from the secretariat of the locale before you move. Look for the address of the locale of the Church in your new residence and have yourself listed immediately. Always remember that the moment you are not registered, you are not a member of the Church of Christ anymore, and those who are not members will not be saved.
3. The following are the occasions when a member may be listed from the registry of the Church:
* When he is expelled by the Administration because of sin incurred. Therefore you should leave behind and avoid sin or any kind of transgression that would lead to expulsion from the Church.
• When he stops attending the worship services and comes inactive. Therefore, do not stop attending the worship service whatever trials you may encounter.
"' When he leaves his locale without informing the locale Secretariat - by not obtaining a certificate of transfer.
• When he obtains a certificate of transfer but fails to register with the locale he moves to.










Tt,.e,n

'··-- -ES S-0 N .. N.0.

Unity
IL is God's teaching that unity should prevail in the Church of Christ.











Introduction

Unity 127


Conclusion: lt should not surptise anyone that the members of the Church of Christ act as one because this is God's teaching, written in the Bible and taught by Christ and His Apostles. Even though others may try to find fauli with this unity, we should remain firm and never go against this

One of the most noticeable characteristics of the Church of
Christ is its unity. The unity of the Church is most visible during election times because all the members vote as one. Although

teaching.


The Reason

many acknowledge and admire this unity. others criticize it because they fail to understand the whys and wherefores of this unity; they do not know the basis of the unity observed within the Church of Christ.

Presentation


126

reason why it is being exhorted to be one or united?

JS .Pundanumtal B11ltef11 qf the Iglesia nt Cristo
(Ulbl.ft. The I loly Ulhle, New International Version containing the Old Testament nnd the New Te11t.11ment. New York: International Bible Society, (Cl 1978.]

g, Why has God made it so that the members of the Church
should be together in only one body?




129

( ;}. Th1..1:s, wha.t did the /\postles advise us in order that God may remain with us?

Conclusion: Therefore, unity should at all times be kept in the Church. Staying united as taught by God is the condition for Him to stay with us.

Voting

Note: Whatever is being done by the members of the Church of Christ (voting included) there should be no strife or taking sides.


.rn

131

[}., ."ilur.1 111,' J11d((Fi'J<,;rJI Webs. New Int'l.
Diet., p. 2295
"Vote - expreealon of Judgment "
IWebater'1 New International Dictionary,@ 1913.J

Q, What is the the Apostles whenever we express
any judgment?

Conclusion: Therefore, even in the exercise of suffrage we remain united because the command is to be of the same or onejudgment. Voting is an expression of judgment and thus we should be one in voting. Hence, individual members of the Church of Christ do not select their own candidates during election time because this destroys the unity of the Church.

Note: This kind of dispute created divisions among the Church members because of differences of opinion. Each one had his own opinion. Therefore, in order to prevent divisions in the Church, they went to Jerusalem where the Executive Minister was.


Conclusion
Unity in the Church is quite significant and unique because our unity includes God and Christ. It is evil to destroy this unity. Thus, God discourages factionalism and disunity in our midst. We become united not only in voting but most importantly in our services to God. Give your best efforts to preserve Church unity for the sake of God's glory. Do not attempt to violate Churc):l unity, whether in voting or in other activities, for this is a sin that

Note: Only one gave the decision: the over-all administrator
of the Church.



will lead to expulsion from the Church.

i-iUNr..: N ]
Judgment Day
Tl,erne: O:n J'udgment Day will be the resurrection of the dead and the granting of the promised inheritance to the members of the Church of Christ.

Introduction
In this world, evil and iniquity are commonplace. Many people of the world are suffering under the spell of calamities, hunger, and hardships. Where will these tribulations of man lead? What will be the end for this world? What do members of the Church of Christ hope for so that in spite of what they suffer in this world they still strive to remain in the service of God?
Presentation

Note: Just as death is fulfilled and experienced by man, so will the Day of Judgment be because the God who appointed death is the same God who appointed Judgment Day.
132

1 1:33


Conclusion: We are very near the Day of Judgment because we have already seen the signs given by our Lord Jesus Christ.

Conclusion: For those outside the Church will come perdition on the Day of Judgment; for the members of the Church of Christ, however, this day will be a great day of salvation.

The Good Fortune


1:1,1 ,rlr11,11 ·, ,t,,1 I,, r.u ff 11 · {ul,t;I',, ,


• 1111:,>1 wlU 1..- 11p 1,;gt;;ll-1i.:r ;ind will
1 r1,,,i11,1nymorc ...................._.... r T11.ess. 4: J 7
CJ. WI 1r11, j:.'1I I), ,11 of Cod lo I hose who will be resurrected




L E S S O N N 0. 27



The Probation
Theme: The candidate should pass through tests to ascertain if his faith is genuine or sincere.




Conclusion
Whatever you will expetj.ence and encounter in this life, you should not separate from the Church of Christ. Strive to be found here when the end comes so that youcan beassured of salvation on the day of Judgment.

Introduction
After you have heard the fundamental teachings upheld by the Church of Christ (Iglesia ni Cristo), the next step for you to be included among the recipients of salvation is baptism. But before you receive baptism, you need to prove firs!. that youhave complete faith in the teachings you have received. You have to pass through tests to know the genuineness and sincerity of your faith. One way to prove your sincerity is by attending, on

135



1:18 Fundarntmtal Dt!l 11 q{t.hP Iglesia nl Cristo

and Sundays (or other designated days of' worship In your locale}, the worship services of the Church within a fven period designated by the Church Administration. 1,!kewfse, you should consistently attend the weekly committee prayer meetings. You may also encounter other trials while on probation. In the face of these trials, you should prove that you truly believe so that you will be included among the deserving recipients of the holy baptism. Why is it necessary for you to prove your faith?

Presentation

Make the baptismal candidate understand:
This is the procedure taught by our Savior. A person should be baptized in order to be saved; but he has to believe before he can be baptized; before he can believe, he first should hear the preaching of the gospel.


Make the baptismal candidate understand:
Therefore, trials are inevitable. These are necessary for us to prove our faith. Thus, instead of trials causing us to feel discouraged they should be our cause forrejoicing according to the apostles.

'J'l,c 137

Make the baptismal candidate understand:
If we have been overcome by the things of this world, this signifies that we do not yet believe - we cannot be baptized. Thus, we should prove that the words that have been sown or taught to us have borne fruit.


Make the baptismal candidate understand: We should live our life in holiness.


[Bible. Good News Bible, The Bible in Today's English Version, Catholic Study Edition. Nashville, U.S.A.: Catholic Bible Press,(c) 1979.]



1.1. 'i ,,; c, ;s1
q, 11 proLil,.:111.'i bt:ca:us.o or these. service to Goel
IH h1;,l111 . hi11d rccl. wtiaLsho1.llcl be your hope?

The Probation 139
Conclusion: You should be firm in spite of whatever trials that you may encounter in life. When moments come that youseem to lose hope and courage, pray to God and ask Him
to give you strength and courage for you to remain in His calling until the end.


Make the baptismal candidate understand: We should put our trust in God.


Make the baptismal candidate understand:
Thus, you should not drawback orquit no matter what trials you encounter. You need to receive baptism for you to become a true member of the Church of Christ. But is it only until the day of our baptism that weshould remain faithful?






LE S S O N N 0. 28


Overall Instructions

I

Things to do after baptism

What is the .first thing you should immediately do after your baptism?

• See the locale secretary who will officially register you as a full-fledged member of the Church of Christ.

• Youshall be assigned a permanent tag indicating your name and the number of the area and group to which you belong. You will find this tag at the chapel lobby or entrance.
Remember your tag number and where it is placed. Everytime you attend the worship service, please tum your name tag to indicate proof of your attendance. Be careful not to tum somebody else's tag.
If the day of the worship service has ended and you have not turned your tag, it will be assumed that youwere absent or you attended in another locale. Therefore, expect a visit from your group overseer who would ask why you were absent or where you attended the services. He will remind and counsel you not to neglect this extremely important duty to God. If your absence is due to illness, it would be better for the overseer to pray for your recovery and annoint you with oil as the Bible teaches. If there were other reasons, like any of life's problems, the overseer would be there to counsel you. You can likewise seek guidance from God through prayer.

11i;lln11. 141
• The l()Cak se(:retary will give you the name of the overseer
:J..Ssigncd to your group. Please see your overseer as soon as possible. I-le is your closest link to the Administration of the 'hurch. Hewill preside over the weekly prayer meetings of your group in the designated homes of the brethren. Please try not to be absent in such prayer meetings.
Eventually, you will be asked to have the prayer meeting held in your home. You should consider it a blessing because it will bring abundant spiritual graces which you need to increase your laith. In such occasions you will also receive significant messages from the Church Administration concerning locale activities which join.


• You should also know the pastor or minister assigned to your locale, as well as the brethren constituting the locale leadership.

To what organizations of the Church of Christ should you belong?

Within the Church, the Administration established Lions to foster closer ties among brethren and lo strengthen their faith.

All married brethren should belong to the Buklod. Those who are single, 18 years of age or more, are members of t:he KADIWA. The youth from 13 to 17 years of age are to be included in the Binhi.



140

1, h1l,t, l(i n( i;r(Stn f11_s/r1_11;1/.i,111 143
Wl1; u,1'1J:1.1,1iz;_1U0'1'1yc>1,1 sJ:1,;tll belong to. please know -



• who ::,ft.. 111,e president and officers in your locale;
• Wh( n I he 1;cg,.1la:rn1eetings of the organization are held in your you will hear announcements after the ship St:arviCt S as lo the date and time of the monthly meetings;
• what projects and activities are being sponsored by the organization so that you may actively participate in them.


II

You and the Church Administration

The Church Administration

The locale of the Church where you ai e registered has a locale leadership headed by a minister or evangelical worker. The leadership also comprises five head deacons, the presidents of the locale organizations, and the locale secretary.
The locales of a province (or state, or region, as the case may





III
Worship Service in the Church of Christ

Twice a week the Church of Christ holds a congregational worship service. This is normally held every Thursday and Sunday (some locales of the Church, mostly in the West, have Wednesday or Friday services instead of Thursdays). There are occasions when the Church obseives special worship services on days other than Thursdays and Sundays.
You are required to attend these Church assemblies. The Bible says, "Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as is the manner of some, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the Day approaching." (Hebrews

be) constitute an ecclesiastical district being supervised by a
minister who is entrusted the office of district (or supervising) minister. The district minister is directly responsible to the Executive Minister concerning all Church activities in his ecclesiastical district. The present Executive Minister of the Church of Christ is Brother Erano G. Manalo.
Every locale is divided into areas (each administered by an area leader), which are further subdivided into groups (each supervised by a group overseer who may be a deacon or someone being groomed for deaconship).
Every group is composed of several families in the Church and that is where you belong.
Thus, your closest link to the Church Administration is your group overseer, then your area leader, finally the resident minister or worker, including the locale leadership.
To the brethren mentioned above, please consult any problem regarding your faith and membership, for they are God's instruments in helping you.

10:25)
The Lord God shall expect your presence in the house of worship every service day, "But the hour is coming, and now is, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father is seeking such to worship Him." (John 4:23)

What activities constitute our congregational worship service?

Our worship begins with congregational hymn singing, by the choir members, and ends with the benediction.

Ir/!/ I It'll!;/ 11/
Tltl:s I w pn'>l{rt111J <,r on:.lt.:r of ;;1clivi.Ue;s di.iring ;). regular
w< ,r,.,I l'ip

145

• hy11Jn singing led by the choir
• al (on1:1J prayer led by the minister or evangelical
who shall preach or by the assigned head deacon
• -· ,-igregational hymn singing
• Tbe sermon
• Prayer
• Collection of Offerings
• Prayer for the Offerings
• Doxology
• Benediction
You are expected to participate in all these activities during the service. That you may perform them with dedication:
• You are supposed to arrive early at the chapel every worship service. You should participate in the hymn singing from the very first hymn to be sung by the congregation up to the last number or the recessional hymn. Sing with all your heart and soul.
• While waiting for the sermon or the study of God's words to begin, be at peace in meditation and silent prayer.
• Open your heart during the assembly's prayers, whoever may be leading. Please stand properly and close your eyes all throughout the prayer. Remember that we stand in the presence of God, therefore we should behave with extreme reverence. Indicate your participation by responding at proper intervals, with "Yes, Father" or "Amen."
• Follow intently the course of the preaching of the words of God. Strive hard not to fall asleep and overcome all other drances that might prevent you from receiving the message. The best question you can ask yourself to guide you during the study, is: "What does God want me to fulfill in my life at this moment?" Thus, your efforts will be concentrated at fully understanding the message at hand.
• Your contribution should be prepared in advance, so that during the collection you may give it as a voluntary offering and not as something forced on you. Fulfill this obligation with all your heart and soul.







If you attend the worship service in another locale, you should obtain a certificate of attendance from the of said locale. They will ask your name, the locaie where you are registered, and the number of the area and group you belong to. Please provide the information requested, for these will be included in the certificate of attendance. Do not lose this certificate because you are expected to turn it over to your group overseer when he visits you. It is certain that he will visit you if you are not able to attend the worship services in your locale. This visit should make us happy for it is a proof of concern and interest for your welfare.

During the worship services, as mentioned before, you stand in the presence of God; not as a spectator in a theater audience but as an active participant - as a worshipper. You are U1ere to praise God for all His goodness to you and to otrer worsh_ip. I-le waits for you to entrust allyour troubles and anxieties unto Him; and it is in the worship service that He is ever willing to answer all your pleadings.
It is only proper that you present yourself in deep reverence before God. Your entire appearance, including your attire, should befit the holiness and majesty of our God. The finest and most appropriate clothing we have should be worn when we worship God.

/ ldld.fl1.!f Cristo
Lller:wlsfa.. wl11.:.n w1 wutk. si,t.rid the house of w1; slJnukl obsc1-ve p.roper Please follow the
I 11,:;il i-w<.;IJons l1e cl1 ac:011s and deaconesses who are in charge of th Sf; of the occasion.
Avc,id causing any damage on any part of the chapel and plca_.-sc du not H.t.ter. Yet, more than the physical cleanliness that sl'101,,ilcl be accorded the worship service, is the spiritual purity, Lbal.is, the purity of our lives. Be earnest to follow the righteous
way of living which you have been taught, so that the worship you offer shall always be pleasing to God.
Every worship service must result in the edification of your faith. Thus, everytime you attend, you should feel the power of God that will strengthen you amidst your weaknesses, comfort you in times of sorrows and miseries, encourage you to overcome all trials and enable you to endure in your calling as one of God's chosen ones.
All these you shall experience when you sincerely devote yourself in worshipping God and when you fully prepare yourself to receive God's abundant blessings.

IV
How you should obey the teachings you have received
As a review of the basic doctrines you have just learned, here is a summary together with the instructions on how to fulfill them.
About the Bible. The Church of Christ believes that the words of God are written only in the Bible. Thus, the Bible should be the sole basis of service to God; in it is the truth which teaches man howto be saved from punishment on the Day of Judgment.
Therefore, renounce all belief in Catechism books, the Book of Mormon, and all other books by other religions, because God prohibits such (I Cor. 4:6; Rev. 22: 18-19).
Follow steadfastly and faithfully all teachings from the Bible which you have learned in the Church of Christ.
About God. The Father alone is the true God, the Creator of all things.

147

You should now reject the doctrine of the Trinity; this is against the teaching of the Bible. Do not worship images, for these are not the true God.
You should acknowledge the Father as the only true God. But your recognition of Him should not stop there. Your relationship with Him should grow, He should, indeed, be your Father and friend, and you should walk with Him all the days of your life.

About Christ's natural state ofbeing. You must discard the idea that Christ is the true God. This is a sinful belief because it is contrary to Biblical teaching. You should also reject the belief that Christ is both true man and true God.
Those who preach that Christ is God use the Bible also. Be not deceived by them because nowhere is it recorded in the Bible that Christ says that He is the true God. But why are they able to quote verses from the Bible? They either give those verses a wrong interpretation or they use passages that have been erroneously translated.
Never believe that there is at least one Bible verse (correctly translated) which states that Christ is God. Whoever preaches such is a false teacher (II Car. 11:3-4).
You should reject the doctrine that there are three persons in one God. The Father is the only true God.
You should, however, acknowledge and worship Christ, cognize Him as our only Mediator with God and the only man who is ho y and sinless.
About the true religion. The popular belief that allchurches belong to God is false. Christ founded only one true Church - the Church of Christ. Therefore, you should value the Church because herein you are able to perform the kind of service wtiich God shall accept and through which you shall be saved.
About the Church of Christ. You should recognize and have complete conviction in the significance of the Church for salvation.
Always have faith that Christ will save the Church of Christ.
Do not let others deceive you when they say that faith alone in Christ is enough to gain salvation.

,,,..,

/ ,,.,,,·/•, u.,11/
About tbe Cbmcb founded by Christ In the. first century.


01J;;rull 11!)

Brother Felix Y. was God"s instrument in preaching

1111; b_y Christ ,ill Lht;: nr t. <.:entwy tel! Jnt:o
M/?sl nr 111c 111ernbers were led astray liom I.he truth by rophets who arose within the Church with the passing
;_1w;iy the rest, those who remained faithful, were put lo dc;:ath by the ravenous wolves.
ThQse who were forewarned as the false prophets who would rnlsJeacl !he Church were none other than the Catholic priests. They introduced false beliefs into the Church until it ceased to be the true Church and became the Catholic Church - a religion vastly different from the Church of Christ recorded in the Bible.
Thus, the Catholic Church is not of Christ and definitely not of God, and there is no salvation in it.
If you are a former Catholic, do not make the sign of the cross anymore. Renounce all Catholic teachings for they are against God's word.
If you used to be a Catholic, discard all irr'l.ages, crosses, crucifixes, and idols.
Do not listen to mass anymore, and do not receive communion.
Do not confess to a priest anymore.
Do not say prayers for the dead and never celebrate "All Saints' Day" or any Catholic feast day anymore. Do not participate in any way in any celebration honoring Catholic saints.

About the Church of Christ's emergence in the pines. The Church of Christ that emerged in the Philippines (in the Far East) during these last days is the fulfillment of the prophecies made by God and Christ. This is the third part of the Church founded by Christ. It arose in these last days after the Church founded by Christ in the first century was completely led astray by the false prophets. Even the spread of this Church in the Far West is also the realization of God's prophecies in the Bible.

About God's Last Messenger. God's messenger in these last days is Brother Felix Y. Manalo. He did not establish the Church of Christ; Christ Himself did that through prophecy.

I.he gospel of salvation in these last days. He was the first one to prodaim about the Church of Christ in the Philippines. That is why this Church which you have joined is of God and of Christ. Do not ever believe those detractors who allege that it was only Brother Felix Y. Manalo who founded the Church in the Philippines and that this is supposedly the church of Brother Manalo. Those are simply lies and slanderous statements. Never
let yourself be called a member of the Church of Manalo.
Believe instead in the commissioning of Brother Felix Y. Manalo as God's messenger.

About persecutions. You cannot avoid to overcome persecutions because this is one of the foundations for inheriting the kingdom of heaven. You should not give up when you encounter harassments. Instead, pray to God for help so that you may overcome all persecutions.

About enduring as a member of the Church of Christ. You should strive to obey all Church rules and regulations. lor by doing so. you prove that youare a true member of I.hr Church of Christ.
Your motive in joining should never be beca1,1se of your parents, spouse, brothers and sisters, friends. c,mploycrs who are Church members, or out of personal pron t.

About renewing your life. It is not enough just to h1,;corne a member of the Church; you should undergo a full renewal of lite::. Those members who have turned a new lik truly bc lung to Christ and to God. We should put into praclice tl'le
ments we have received.
If you used to get drunk or you used lo drink liquor 01- lal(e drugs, you should refrain from any of these vices Goel bids them.
If you used to gamble, you should know U,;:it, all forrns of gambling are prohibited in the Church of Cbrist:. like: racing. lotteries, card or dice games, slot machines. etc.
Ifyou are involved in an adulterous relaUonship. you sho1,Il<;l stop this right away. God forbids adultery.

/!,fl f11fl.dtHll/;l[ft1f • / _JD, rll
1r _yo11 ;1t1; 1;111ph1ynl <.lishoni;: 1- O(;Cl,IJ); 1U.oo. rif tiny 1111;> -ril ;, ct . Lbls Is noL allOw( c,L We should live

You I1ou'ki ce;1se indulging in any vice or sin in your life.


)1.u;l-c 1.n ln:Jtri,CltnnS }51

It is Ukcwise the duty of the Church of Christ members to perform U1anksgiving to God and to bring thanksgiving offerings every end of the year.
We have to prepare our thanksgiving offering for one year. Be

r<cfrnln frol'n swearing or using foul language and do not
11crform Lbe kind of dances popularized in the world, iif:d by provocative and sensuous behavior.

On worship service. As previously discussed in a separate section, you should, out of love, always attend the worship service.
To neglect the worship service is considered a serious pass. From now on never miss attendance, unless you are seriously ill and physically incapable.
You should not be hindered by your employment or profession or any personal interest in performing this duty. God should have priority over anyone and anything in the world.
When you attend the worship services in your own locale, do not fail to tum you own name tag (not somebody else's) before you enter the house of worship.
If you shall attend in another locale, do not forget to obtain a certificate of attendance from the secretaries before you leave. This certificate should be submitted promptly to your group overseer or group secretary so that you will not be counted
among the absentees.

About the offering. The giving of offering or contribution in the Church of Christ is not a rule created by the ministers but it is the will of God. It should not, however, be given like alms for the poor.
Every member of the Church of Christ is responsible to give offerings.
Do this with all your heart, willingly, and joyfully.
The offering should be saved and set aside. Do not offer only what is in excess or whatever is left of the money you earned after spending it for yourself.
As you budget your personal needs, be more concerned about setting aside your offering to God.

like many members of the Church of Christ who save regularly through the Church's system. This is the most convenient method, because without realizing it, we are able to save.
On brotherly love. The members of the Church of Christ have a very unique relationship. They constitute a brotherhood established by Christ and willed by God.
You should call all members of the Church, including ters, your brothers (or sisters, as the case may be). We treat one another as equals within the Church. Follow Christ's command that we should love one another.
You should avoid doing evil to brethren in the Church. You should not defraud anyone.
If somehow your brother has wronged you, do not sue him in court. God does not allow us to do so.
Bring all your complaints to the Church Administration, for they shall be the ones to settle and decide on the matter.
Anyone who will bring his brother to court or who will refuse reconciliation shall be expelled from the Church.
Brethren who have disputes should settle their differences at once. They are expected to forgive one another.
Other prohibitions. In the Church of Christ, we are den to eat blood (or food using blood as an ingredient) and we are prohibited to marry a nonmember.
When preparing or dressing fowls and animals prior t.
cooking, make sure to pour out the blood.
It is a grievous sin before God for a Church member to m_a_r.ry a nonmember.
Just courting or being engaged with a nonmember is aJrC,Jdy prohibited by God. If you are still single, do not ma.rry au unbeliever.
Do not elope just to get married. Be sure to get. from your parents.
You are also instructed to avoid joining organizations_Of k1bor
unions whose principles run in conflict with bibhcal tcac;hi11gs,

I .1il , Funilw11u11lul LJ.-lt,Jli,t/ llu.d!IL,; ID 1,,. 153

J\l>mJl bnptlsni. 13:)ptt m. i an 1d ofhuryiog sins: tl1us. after
l1;i,pLJ:;,n1yrH1l,1011ld w::tlk in lhe l1t':Wl'l.ess ofl_iJc
IJyun l1avc cl1llclren or will have some in the future, do not
•
Upon waking up in the morning
• When you ask to be forgiven of sins and to be strengthened in your faith: when you need help in your livelihood, and

hi..Lv(:

bapUzcd because that is against God's law.

when you plead to be saved from temptations and

111 lh1;: Cburd:i of Christ, infants and children who still have 111inds are never baptized but simply offered to God to di::clical.e Lhern into His service. In due time, when they reach the rigl1t1ge in which they could be taught and they are able to believe. shall they then be baptized.
While these children are growing up (from 4 to 12 years of age), they are required to attend the children's worship services held once a week (or twice weekly in some locales) at designated times and places. If you have young children whom you want to raise in the Church, have them offered and when it is the proper time, let them attend the children's worship services. When they come of age, capable of making intelligent choices, let them receive instructions in fundamental doctrines of the Church so that they could be baptized.
About prayer and missionary work. He who participates in missionary work and knows how to pray properly eventually becomes stable and strong in faith. These works are both manded by God and should be valued by all members of the Church of Christ.
Therefore, you should help in the propagational work of the Church by inviting people to attend Bible studies and distributing reading materials like pamphlets, leaflets and our magazines, Pasugo, God's Message.
In the Church, the Administration organized the Light of Salvation. This organization is composed of missionary helpers in every locale. You could join this group, to further enhance your participation in the propagation of faith.
In every aspect of our life, we should walk with our God. You should learn how to pray in order to effectively communicate with God. You must pray:
• Before you eat
• Before you leave home for work or school
• Upon reaching home from work, school. or any other place
• Before you sleep at night

innumerable troubles in life.
• And in every moment, as the need and opportunity may arise. Do not forget to attend your group prayer meetings.

About being registered. If your name does not appear in the Church's registry on earth, it does not appear in the registry in heaven (the Book of Life). If you are not listed with the Church, you are not considered a member and therefore you will not be saved on the Day of Judgment.
The following are the occasions when a member may be delisted from the registry of the Church:

• When he is expelled by the Church Administration because of sin.
• When he stops attending the worship services and becomes inactive.
• When he leaves his locale without informing the locale tariat, by not obtaining a certificate of transfer.
• When he obtains a certificate of transfer but he fails to register with the locale he moves to.

Always remember: the moment you are not registered, you are no longer a member of the Church of Christ, and he who is not a member will not be saved.

On unity. Unity in the Church is extremely significant. because our unity includes God and Christ. It is wrong to viola:t'B this unity. Thus, God discourages factionalism and divis.ion if1 ourmidst.
We become one and united not only in voting buL mos
importantly in our services to God.
Show your best efforts to preserve Church unity. for sJJ. •· of glorifying God.
Do not attempt to violate Church unity. whel.h< r ,i1--vi ol'ill&{or in other activities, for this is a sin that leads Lo ux:pul lot1 i'rc,m the Church.


J&I Fundamental qf tM nt Cristo
About contlnu!DI ln our hope. Remain in the Church of Christ, obedient till the end, that you may receive that great hope of those who are in Christ when He comes again.
Continue to attend the worship services, join other Church activities, and endure whatever sufferings may come.
Do not withdraw from membership in the Church of Christ, whatever may happen to your life or to this world, so that you may not lose the privilege to inherit God's promises.

May our great God bless you all the days of your life.

